iPhone User Guide For iOS 8.4 Software Contents 9 Chapter 1: iPhone at a glance 9 iPhone overview 11 Accessories 11 Multi-Touch screen 12 Buttons 14 SIM card 14 Status icons 16 Chapter 2: Get started 16 Set up iPhone 16 Connect to Wi-Fi 17 Connect to the Internet 17 Apple ID 17 iCloud 19 Set up other mail, contacts, and calendar accounts 19 Manage content on your iOS devices 20 Connect iPhone to your computer 20 Sync with iTunes 21 Date and time 21 Apple Watch 21 International settings 22 Your iPhone name 22 View this user guide on iPhone 22 Tips for using iOS 8 23 Chapter 3: Basics 23 Use apps 26 Continuity 28 Customize iPhone 30 Type text 32 Dictate 33 Voice Control 34 Search 35 Control Center 35 Alerts and Notification Center 36 Sounds and silence 37 Do Not Disturb 37 Sharing 39 iCloud Drive 40 Transfer files 40 Personal Hotspot 41 AirPlay 2 41 AirPrint 41 Use an Apple headset 42 Bluetooth devices 43 Restrictions 43 Privacy 44 Security 46 Charge and monitor the battery 47 Travel with iPhone 48 Chapter 4: Siri 48 Make requests 49 Siri and apps 49 Tell Siri about yourself 49 Make corrections 49 Siri Eyes Free 50 Siri settings 51 Chapter 5: Phone 51 Phone calls 55 Visual voicemail 56 Contacts 56 Call forwarding, call waiting, and caller ID 56 Ringtones and vibrations 56 International calls 57 Phone settings 58 Chapter 6: Mail 58 Write messages 59 Get a sneak peek 59 Finish a message later 60 See important messages 60 Attachments 61 Work with multiple messages 61 See and save addresses 61 Print messages 62 Mail settings 63 Chapter 7: Safar i 63 Safari at a glance 64 Search the web 64 Browse the web 65 Keep bookmarks 66 Save a reading list for later 66 Shared links and subscriptions 67 Fill in forms 67 Avoid clutter with Reader 67 Privacy and security 68 Safari settings 69 Chapter 8: Music 69 Music at a glance Contents 3 69 Access music 70 Apple Music 70 Get personalized recommendations 70 For You 71 Search for and add music 71 Play music 72 New 73 Radio 73 Connect 74 Playlists 75 iTunes Match 75 My Music 76 Siri and Voice Control 76 Music settings 78 Chapter 9: Message s 78 SMS, MMS, and iMessage 79 Send and receive messages 80 Manage conversations 81 Share photos, videos, your location, and more 82 Messages settings 83 Chapter 10: Calendar 83 Calendar at a glance 84 Invitations 84 Use multiple calendars 85 Share iCloud calendars 85 Calendar settings 86 Chapter 11: Photos 86 View photos and videos 87 Organize photos and videos 88 iCloud Photo Library 89 My Photo Stream 89 iCloud Photo Sharing 91 Other ways to share photos and videos 91 Edit photos and trim videos 92 Print photos 92 Photos settings 93 Chapter 12: Camera 93 Camera at a glance 94 Take photos and videos 96 HDR 96 View, share, and print 97 Camera settings 98 Chapter 13: Weather 100 Chapter 14: Clock 100 Clock at a glance Contents 4 101 Alarms and timers 102 Chapter 15: Maps 102 Find places 103 Get more info 103 Get directions 104 3D and Flyover 104 Maps settings 105 Chapter 16: Videos 105 Videos at a glance 106 Add videos to your library 106 Control playback 107 Videos settings 108 Chapter 17: Note s 108 Notes at a glance 109 Use notes in multiple accounts 110 Chapter 18: Reminders 110 Reminders at a glance 111 Scheduled reminders 111 Location reminders 112 Reminders settings 113 Chapter 19: Stocks 115 Chapter 20: Game Center 115 Game Center at a glance 116 Play games with friends 116 Game Center settings 117 Chapter 21: Newsstand 118 Chapter 22: iTunes Store 118 iTunes Store at a glance 118 Browse or search 119 Purchase, rent, or redeem 120 iTunes Store settings 121 Chapter 23:??App Store 121 App Store at a glance 121 Find apps 122 Purchase, redeem, and download 123 App Store settings 124 Chapter 24: iBooks 124 Get books 124 Read a book 125 Interact with multimedia 125 Study notes and glossary terms 126 Listen to an audiobook Contents 5 127 Organize books 127 Read PDFs 128 iBooks settings 129 Chapter 25: Health 129 Your health at a glance 130 Collect health and fitness data 130 Share health and fitness data 130 Create an emergency medical ID 131 Chapter 26: Passbook 131 Passbook at a glance 131 Passbook on the go 132 Apple Pay 135 Passbook & Apple Pay settings 136 Chapter 27: FaceTime 136 FaceTime at a glance 136 Make and answer calls 137 Manage calls 137 Settings 138 Chapter 28: Calculator 139 Chapter 29: Podcasts 139 Podcasts at a glance 140 Get podcasts and episodes 141 Control playback 142 Organize your favorites into stations 142 Podcasts settings 143 Chapter 30: Compass 143 Compass at a glance 144 On the level 145 Chapter 31: Voice Memos 145 Voice Memos at a glance 145 Record 146 Play it back 146 Move recordings to your computer 147 Chapter 32: Contacts 147 Contacts at a glance 148 Use Contacts with Phone 148 Add contacts 149 Unify contacts 149 Contacts settings 150 Appendix A: Accessibility 150 Accessibility features 151 Accessibility Shortcut 151 VoiceOver Contents 6 162 Zoom 163 Invert Colors and Grayscale 164 Speak Selection 164 Speak Screen 164 Speak Auto-text 164 Large, bold, and high-contrast text 164 Button Shapes 165 Reduce screen motion 165 On/off switch labels 165 Assignable ringtones and vibrations 165 Video Descriptions 165 Hearing aids 167 Mono audio and balance 167 Subtitles and closed captions 167 Siri 167 Widescreen keyboards 168 Large phone keypad 168 LED Flash for Alerts 168 Call audio routing 168 Phone noise cancelation 168 Guided Access 169 Switch Control 172 AssistiveTouch 174 TTY support 174 Visual voicemail 174 Voice Control 174 Accessibility in OS X 175 Appendix B: iPhone in business 175 Mail, Contacts, and Calendar 175 Network access 175 Apps 177 Appendix C: International keyboards 177 Use international keyboards 178 Special input methods 180 Appendix D: CarPlay 180 About CarPlay 180 Get started 181 Maps 181 Phone 181 Messages 182 Music 182 Podcasts 182 Other apps 183 Appendix E: Safety, handling, and support 183 Important safety information 185 Important handling information 186 iPhone Support site Contents 7 186 Restart or reset iPhone 187 Reset iPhone settings 187 Get information about your iPhone 188 Usage information 188 Disabled iPhone 188 Back up iPhone 189 Update and restore iPhone software 190 Cellular settings 191 Sell or give away iPhone 191 Learn more, service, and support 192 FCC compliance statement 192 Canadian regulatory statement 193 Disposal and recycling information 195 Apple and the environment Contents 8 1 9 iPhone at a glance iPhone overview This guide describes iOS 8.4 for: • iPhone 6 • iPhone 6 Plus • iPhone 5s • iPhone 5c • iPhone 5 • iPhone 4s iPhone 6 Bottom microphone Bottom microphone Ring/Silent switch Ring/Silent switch Receiver/front microphone Receiver/front microphone FaceTime camera FaceTime camera Volume buttons Volume buttons Multi-Touch display Multi-Touch display Home button/ Touch ID sensor Home button/ Touch ID sensor Headset jack Headset jack Sleep/Wake button Sleep/Wake button iSight camera iSight camera SIM card tray SIM card tray True Tone Flash True Tone Flash Rear microphone Rear microphone App icons App icons Status bar Status bar Lightning connector Lightning connector Speaker Speaker Chapter 1 iPhone at a glance 10 iPhone 6 Plus FaceTime camera FaceTime camera Ring/Silent switch Ring/Silent switch Receiver/front microphone Receiver/front microphone Volume buttons Volume buttons Multi-Touch display Multi-Touch display Home button/ Touch ID sensor Home button/ Touch ID sensor Sleep/Wake button Sleep/Wake button iSight camera iSight camera SIM card tray SIM card tray True Tone Flash True Tone Flash Rear microphone Rear microphone App icons App icons Status bar Status bar Bottom microphone Bottom microphone Headset jack Headset jack Lightning connector Lightning connector Speaker Speaker iPhone 5s Receiver/front microphone Receiver/front microphone Bottom microphone Bottom microphone Ring/Silent switch Ring/Silent switch FaceTime camera FaceTime camera Volume buttons Volume buttons Multi-Touch display Multi-Touch display Home button/ Touch ID sensor Home button/ Touch ID sensor Headset jack Headset jack Sleep/Wake button Sleep/Wake button Rear microphone Rear microphone SIM card tray SIM card tray True Tone Flash True Tone Flash iSight camera iSight camera App icons App icons Status bar Status bar Lightning connector Lightning connector Speaker Speaker Your iPhone features and apps may vary depending on the model of iPhone you have, and on your location, language, and carrier. To find out which features are supported in your area, see www.apple.com/ios/feature-availability/. Note:  Apps and services that send or receive data over a cellular network may incur additional fees. Contact your carrier for information about your iPhone service plan and fees. Chapter 1 iPhone at a glance 11 Accessories The following accessories are included with iPhone: Apple headset. Use the Apple EarPods with Remote and Mic (iPhone 5 or later) or the Apple Earphones with Remote and Mic (iPhone 4s) to listen to music and videos, and make phone calls. See Use an Apple headset on page 41. Connecting cable. Use the Lightning to USB Cable (iPhone 5 or later) or the 30-pin to USB Cable (iPhone 4s) to connect iPhone to your computer to sync and charge. Apple USB power adapter. Use with the Lightning to USB Cable or the 30-pin to USB Cable to charge the iPhone battery. SIM eject tool. Use to eject the SIM card tray. (Not included in all areas.) Multi-Touch screen A few simple gestures—tap, drag, swipe, and pinch—are all you need to use iPhone and its apps. Chapter 1 iPhone at a glance 12 Buttons Most of the buttons you use with iPhone are virtual ones on the touchscreen. A few physical buttons control basic functions, such as turning iPhone on or adjusting the volume. Sleep/Wake button When you’re not using iPhone, press the Sleep/Wake button to lock iPhone. Locking iPhone puts the display to sleep, saves the battery, and prevents anything from happening if you touch the screen. You can still get phone calls, FaceTime calls, text messages, alarms, and notifications. You can also listen to music and adjust the volume. On iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, the Sleep/Wake button is on the right side: Sleep/Wake button Sleep/Wake button On earlier iPhone models, the Sleep/Wake button is on the top edge: Sleep/Wake button Sleep/Wake button iPhone locks automatically if you don’t touch the screen for a minute or so. To adjust the timing, go to Settings > General > Auto-Lock. Turn iPhone on. Press and hold the Sleep/Wake button until the Apple logo appears. Unlock iPhone. Press either the Sleep/Wake or Home button, then drag the slider. Turn iPhone off. Press and hold the Sleep/Wake button until the slider appears, then drag the slider. For additional security, you can require a passcode to unlock iPhone. Go to Settings > Touch ID & Passcode (iPhone models with Touch ID) or Settings > Passcode (other models). See Use a passcode with data protection on page 44. Home button The Home button takes you to the Home screen and provides other convenient shortcuts. On the Home screen, tap any app to open it. See apps you’ve opened. Double-click the Home button when iPhone is unlocked. See Start at home on page 23. Use Siri or Voice Control. Press and hold the Home button. See Chapter 4, Siri, on page 48 and Voice Control on page 33. Chapter 1 iPhone at a glance 13 On iPhone models with Touch ID, you can use the sensor in the Home button to read your fingerprint, instead of using your passcode or Apple ID password to unlock iPhone or make purchases in the iTunes Store, App Store, and iBooks Store. See Touch ID on page 44. If you have iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus, you can also use the Touch ID sensor for authentication when using Apple Pay to make a purchase in a store or from within an app. See Touch ID on page 44 and Apple Pay on page 132. You can also use the Home button to turn accessibility features on or off. See Accessibility Shortcut on page 151. Volume controls When you’re on the phone or listening to songs, movies, or other media, the buttons on the side of iPhone adjust the audio volume. Otherwise, the buttons control the volume for the ringer, alerts, and other sound effects. WARNING:  For important information about avoiding hearing loss, see Important safety information on page 183. Volume up Volume up Volume down Volume down Lock the ringer and alert volumes. Go to Settings > Sounds, then turn off Change with Buttons. To limit the volume for music and videos, go to Settings > Music > Volume Limit. Note:  In some European Union (EU) countries, iPhone may warn that you’re setting the volume above the EU recommended level for hearing safety. To increase the volume beyond this level, you may need to briefly release the volume control. To limit the maximum headset volume to this level, go to Settings > Music > Volume Limit, then turn on EU Volume Limit. To prevent changes to the volume limit, go to Settings > General > Restrictions. Use Control Center to adjust the volume. When iPhone is locked or when you’re using another app, swipe up from the bottom edge of the screen to open Control Center. You can also use either volume button to take a picture or record a video. See Take photos and videos on page 94. Ring/Silent switch Flip the Ring/Silent switch to put iPhone in ring mode or silent mode . Ring Ring Silent Silent In ring mode, iPhone plays all sounds. In silent mode, iPhone doesn’t ring or play alerts and other sound effects (but iPhone may still vibrate). Chapter 1 iPhone at a glance 14 Important:  Clock alarms, audio apps such as Music, and many games play sounds through the built-in speaker, even when iPhone is in silent mode. In some areas, the sound effects for Camera and Voice Memos are played, even if the Ring/Silent switch is set to silent. For information about changing sound and vibration settings, see Sounds and silence on page 36. Use Do Not Disturb. You can also silence calls, alerts, and notifications using Do Not Disturb. Swipe up from the bottom edge of the screen to open Control Center, then tap . See Do Not Disturb on page 37. SIM card If you were given a SIM card to install, install it before setting up iPhone. Important:  A Micro-SIM card (iPhone 4s) or a Nano-SIM card (iPhone 5 or later) is required to use cellular services when connecting to GSM networks and some CDMA networks. iPhone that’s been activated on a CDMA wireless network may also use a SIM card for connecting to a GSM network, primarily for international roaming. Your iPhone is subject to your wireless service provider’s policies, which may include restrictions on switching service providers and roaming, even after conclusion of any required minimum service contract. Contact your wireless service provider for more details. Availability of cellular capabilities depends on the wireless network. SIM card SIM card SIM card tray SIM card tray Paper clip or SIM eject tool Paper clip or SIM eject tool Status icons The icons in the status bar at the top of the screen give information about iPhone: Status icon What it means Cell signal You’re in range of the cellular network and can make and receive calls. If there’s no signal, “No service” appears. Airplane mode Airplane mode is on—you can’t make phone calls, and other wireless functions may be disabled. See Travel with iPhone on page 47. LTE Your carrier’s LTE network is available, and iPhone can connect to the Internet over that network. (iPhone 5 or later. Not available in all areas.) See Cellular settings on page 190. UMTS Your carrier’s 4G UMTS (GSM) or LTE network (depending on carrier) is available, and iPhone can connect to the Internet over that network. (Not available in all areas.) See Cellular settings on page 190. UMTS/EV-DO Your carrier’s 3G UMTS (GSM) or EV-DO (CDMA) network is available, and iPhone can connect to the Internet over that network. See Cellular settings on page 190. Chapter 1 iPhone at a glance 15 Status icon What it means EDGE Your carrier’s EDGE (GSM) network is available, and iPhone can connect to the Internet over that network. See Cellular settings on page 190. GPRS/1xRTT Your carrier’s GPRS (GSM) or 1xRTT (CDMA) network is available, and iPhone can connect to the Internet over that network. See Cellular settings on page 190. Wi-Fi call iPhone is making a call over Wi-Fi. See Make a call on page 51. Wi-Fi iPhone is connected to the Internet over a Wi-Fi network. See Connect to Wi-Fi on page 16. Do Not Disturb “Do Not Disturb” is turned on. See Do Not Disturb on page 37. Personal Hotspot iPhone is providing a Personal Hotspot for another device. See Personal Hotspot on page 40. Syncing iPhone is syncing with iTunes. See Sync with iTunes on page 20. Network activity Shows that there’s network activity. Some third-party apps may also use it to show an active process. Call Forwarding Call Forwarding is set up. See Call forwarding, call waiting, and caller ID on page 56. VPN You’re connected to a network using VPN. See Network access on page 175. TTY iPhone is set to work with a TTY machine. See TTY support on page 174. Portrait orientation lock The iPhone screen is locked in portrait orientation. See Change the screen orientation on page 25. Alarm An alarm is set. See Alarms and timers on page 101. Location Services An item is using Location Services. See Privacy on page 43. Bluetooth® Blue or white icon:  Bluetooth is on and paired with a device. Gray icon:  Bluetooth is on. If iPhone is paired with a device, the device may be out of range or turned off. No icon:  Bluetooth is turned off. See Bluetooth devices on page 42. Bluetooth battery Shows the battery level of a paired Bluetooth device. Battery Shows the iPhone battery level or charging status. See Charge and monitor the battery on page 46. 2 16 Get started Set up iPhone · WARNING:  To avoid injury, read Important safety information on page 183 before using iPhone. You can set up iPhone over a Wi-Fi network, or over your carrier’s cellular network (not available in all areas). Or connect iPhone to your computer and use iTunes to set up iPhone (see Connect iPhone to your computer on page 20). Set up iPhone. Turn on iPhone, then follow the Setup Assistant. The Setup Assistant steps you through the process, including: • Connecting to a Wi-Fi network • Signing in with or creating a free Apple ID (needed for many features, including iCloud, FaceTime, the iTunes Store, the App Store, and more) • Entering a passcode • Setting up iCloud and iCloud Keychain • Turning on recommended features such as Location Services • Adding a credit or debit card to Passbook to use with Apple Pay (iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus) • Activating iPhone with your carrier You can also restore iPhone from an iCloud or iTunes backup during setup. See Back up iPhone on page 188. Note:  Find My iPhone is turned on when you sign in to iCloud. Activation Lock is engaged to help prevent anyone else from activating your iPhone, even if it is completely restored. Before you sell or give away your iPhone, you should reset it to erase your personal content and turn off Activation Lock. See Sell or give away iPhone on page 191. Some carriers let you unlock iPhone for use with their network. To see if your carrier offers this option, see support.apple.com/kb/HT1937. Contact your carrier for authorization and setup information. You need to connect iPhone to iTunes to complete the process. Additional fees may apply. For more information, see support.apple.com/kb/HT5014. Connect to Wi-Fi If appears at the top of the screen, you’re connected to a Wi-Fi network. iPhone reconnects anytime you return to the same location. Configure Wi-Fi. Go to Settings > Wi-Fi, then turn Wi-Fi on or off. (You can also turn Wi-Fi on or off in Control Center.) • Choose a network:  Tap one of the listed networks, then enter the password, if asked. Chapter 2 Get started 17 • Ask to join networks:  Turn on Ask to Join Networks to be prompted when a Wi-Fi network is available. Otherwise, you must manually join a network when a previously used network isn’t available. • Join a closed Wi-Fi network:  Tap Other, then enter the name of the closed network. You need to know the network name, security type, and password. • Adjust the settings for a Wi-Fi network:  Tap next to a network. You can set an HTTP proxy, define static network settings, turn on BootP, or renew the settings provided by a DHCP server. • Forget a network:  Tap next to a network you’ve joined before, then tap Forget this Network. Set up your own Wi-Fi network. If you have an unconfigured AirPort base station turned on and within range, you can use iPhone to set it up. Go to Settings > Wi-Fi and look for Set up an AirPort base station. Tap your base station and Setup Assistant will do the rest. Manage an AirPort network. If iPhone is connected to an AirPort base station, go to Settings > Wi-Fi, tap next to the network name, then tap Manage this Network. If you haven’t yet downloaded AirPort Utility, tap OK to open the App Store, then download it. Connect to the Internet iPhone connects to the Internet whenever necessary, using a Wi-Fi connection (if available) or your carrier’s cellular network. For information about connecting to a Wi-Fi network, see Connect to Wi-Fi, above. When an app needs to use the Internet, iPhone does the following, in order: • Connects over the most recently used available Wi-Fi network • Shows a list of Wi-Fi networks in range, and connects using the one you choose • Connects over the cellular data network, if available Note:  If a Wi-Fi connection to the Internet isn’t available, apps and services may transfer data over your carrier’s cellular network, which may result in additional fees. Contact your carrier for information about your cellular data plan rates. To manage cellular data usage, see Cellular settings on page 190. Apple ID Your Apple ID is the account you use for just about everything you do with Apple, including storing your content in iCloud, downloading apps from the App Store, and buying music, movies, and TV shows from the iTunes Store. If you already have an Apple ID, use it when you first set up iPhone, and whenever you need to sign in to use an Apple service. If you don’t already have an Apple ID, you can create one whenever you’re asked to sign in. You only need one Apple ID for everything you do with Apple. For more information, see appleid.apple.com. iCloud iCloud offers free mail, contacts, calendar, and other features that you can set up simply by signing in to iCloud with your Apple ID, then making sure that the features you want to use are turned on. Set up iCloud. Go to Settings > iCloud. Create an Apple ID if needed, or use your existing one. Chapter 2 Get started 18 iCloud stores your photos and videos, documents, music, calendars, contacts, and more. Content stored in iCloud is pushed wirelessly to your other iOS devices and computers signed in to iCloud with the same Apple ID. iCloud is available on devices with iOS 5 or later, on Mac computers with OS X Lion v10.7.5 or later, and on PCs with iCloud for Windows 4.0 (Windows 7 or Windows 8 is required). You can also sign in to iCloud.com from any Mac or PC to access your iCloud information and features like Photos, Find My iPhone, Mail, Calendar, Contacts, iWork for iCloud, and more. Note:  iCloud may not be available in all areas, and iCloud features may vary by area. For more information, see www.apple.com/icloud/. iCloud features include: • Music, Movies, TV Shows, Apps, and Books:  Automatically get iTunes purchases on all your devices set up with iCloud, or download previous iTunes music and TV show purchases for free, anytime. With an iTunes Match subscription, all your music, including music you’ve imported from CDs or purchased somewhere other than the iTunes Store, can also be stored in iCloud and played on demand. See iTunes Match on page 75. Download previous App Store and iBooks Store purchases to iPhone for free, anytime. • Photos:  Use iCloud Photo Library to store all your photos and videos in iCloud, and access them from any iOS 8.1 or later device, Mac with OS X Yosemite v10.10.3 or later, and on iCloud.com using the same Apple ID. Use iCloud Photo Sharing to share photos and videos with just the people you choose, and let them add photos, videos, and comments. See iCloud Photo Library on page 88. See iCloud Photo Sharing on page 89. • Family Sharing:  Up to six family members can share their purchases from the iTunes Store, App Store, and iBooks Store. Pay for family purchases with the same credit card and approve kids’ spending right from a parent’s device. Plus, share photos, a family calendar, and more. See Family Sharing on page 38. • iCloud Drive:  Safely store your presentations, spreadsheets, PDFs, images, and other documents in iCloud, and access them from your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Mac, or PC. iCloud Drive is available on any iOS 8 or later device and on any Mac with OS X Yosemite v10.10.0 or later. If you’re using an earlier version of iOS, see Set up iCloud Drive on page 40. • Mail, Contacts, Calendars:  Keep your mail, contacts, calendars, notes, and reminders up to date across all your devices. • Safari Tabs:  See the tabs you have open on your other iOS devices and OS X computers. See Browse the web on page 64. • Backup:  Back up iPhone to iCloud automatically when connected to power and Wi-Fi. iCloud data and backups sent over the Internet are encrypted. See Back up iPhone on page 188. • Find My iPhone:  Locate your iPhone on a map, display a message, play a sound, lock the screen, temporarily suspend or permanently remove your credit and debit cards in Passbook used for Apple Pay, or remotely wipe your iPhone data. Find My iPhone includes Activation Lock, which requires your Apple ID and password in order to turn off Find My iPhone or erase your device. Your Apple ID and password are also required before anyone can reactivate your iPhone. See Find My iPhone on page 46. • Find My Friends:  Share your location with people who are important to you. Download the free app from the App Store. • iCloud Keychain:  Keep your passwords and credit card information up to date across all your designated devices. See iCloud Keychain on page 45. Chapter 2 Get started 19 You must have an iCloud account and be signed in to iCloud to use Apple Pay. See Apple Pay on page 132. With iCloud, you get a free email account and 5 GB of storage for your mail, documents, photos, and backups. Your purchased music, apps, TV shows, and books, as well as your photo streams, don’t count against your available space. Upgrade your iCloud storage. Go to Settings > iCloud > Storage, then tap Change Storage Plan. For information about upgrading your iCloud storage, see help.apple.com/icloud/. View and download previous purchases, or get purchases shared by your family. • iTunes Store purchases: You can access your purchased songs and videos in the Music and Videos apps. Or, in the iTunes Store, tap More, then tap Purchased. • App Store purchases: Go to the App Store, tap Updates, then tap Purchased. • iBooks Store purchases: Go to iBooks, then tap Purchased. Turn on Automatic Downloads for music, apps, or books. Go to Settings > iTunes & App Store. For more information about iCloud, see www.apple.com/icloud/. For support information, see www.apple.com/support/icloud/. Set up other mail, contacts, and calendar accounts iPhone works with Microsoft Exchange, and many of the most popular Internet-based mail, contacts, and calendar services. Set up an account. Go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars > Add Account. You can add contacts using an LDAP or CardDAV account, if your company or organization supports it. See Add contacts on page 148. You can add calendars using a CalDAV calendar account, and you can subscribe to iCalendar (.ics) calendars or import them from Mail. See Use multiple calendars on page 84. For information about setting up a Microsoft Exchange account in a corporate environment, see Mail, Contacts, and Calendar on page 175. Manage content on your iOS devices You can transfer information and files between your iOS devices and computers, using iCloud or iTunes. • iCloud stores your photos and videos, documents, music, calendars, contacts, and more. It all gets pushed wirelessly to your other iOS devices and computers, keeping everything up to date. See iCloud on page 17. • iTunes syncs music, videos, photos, and more between your computer and iPhone. Changes you make on one device are copied to the other when you sync. You can also use iTunes to sync files and documents. See Sync with iTunes on page 20. You can use iCloud or iTunes, or both, depending on your needs. For example, you can use iCloud to automatically keep your contacts and calendars up to date on all your devices, and use iTunes to sync music from your computer to iPhone. Important:  To avoid duplicates, keep contacts, calendars, and notes in sync using iCloud or iTunes, but not both. Chapter 2 Get started 20 You can also manually manage content from iTunes, in the device’s Summary pane. This lets you add songs and videos, by choosing a song, video, or playlist from your iTunes library and then dragging it to your iPhone in iTunes. This is useful if your iTunes library contains more items than can fit on your device. Note:  If you use iTunes Match, you can manually manage only video. Connect iPhone to your computer Connecting iPhone to your computer lets you sync content from your computer using iTunes. See Sync with iTunes on page 20. To use iPhone with your computer, you need: • An Internet connection for your computer (broadband is recommended) • A Mac or a PC with a USB 2.0 or 3.0 port, and one of the following operating systems: • OS X version 10.6.8 or later • Windows 8, Windows 7, Windows Vista, or Windows XP Home or Professional with Service Pack 3 or later Connect iPhone to your computer. Use the included Lightning to USB Cable or the 30-pin to USB Cable. Sync with iTunes Syncing with iTunes copies information from your computer to iPhone, and vice versa. You can sync by connecting iPhone to your computer, or you can set up iTunes to sync wirelessly with Wi-Fi. You can set iTunes to sync music, videos, apps, photos, and more. For help syncing iPhone, open iTunes on your computer, choose Help > iTunes Help, then select Sync your iPod, iPhone, or iPad. iTunes is available at www.itunes.com/download/. Set up wireless syncing. Connect iPhone to your computer. In iTunes on your computer, select your iPhone, click Summary, then select Sync with this iPhone over Wi-Fi. If Wi-Fi syncing is turned on, iPhone syncs when it’s connected to a power source, both iPhone and your computer are on and connected to the same wireless network, and iTunes is open on your computer. Tips for syncing with iTunes on your computer Connect iPhone to your computer, select it in iTunes, then set options in the different panes. • If iPhone doesn’t appear in iTunes, make sure you’re using the latest version of iTunes, check that the included cable is correctly connected, then try restarting your computer. Chapter 2 Get started 21 • In the Summary pane, you can set iTunes to automatically sync iPhone when it’s attached to your computer. To temporarily prevent syncing when you attach the device, hold down Command and Option (Mac) or Shift and Control (PC) until you see iPhone appear in the iTunes window. • In the Summary pane, select “Encrypt iPhone backup” if you want to encrypt the information stored on your computer when iTunes makes a backup. Encrypted backups are indicated by a lock icon , and a password is required to restore the backup. If you don’t select this option, other passwords (such as those for mail accounts) aren’t included in the backup and you’ll have to reenter them if you use the backup to restore iPhone. • In the Music pane, you can sync music using your playlists. • In the Photos pane, you can sync photos and videos from a supported app or folder on your computer. • If you use iCloud to store your contacts, calendars, and bookmarks, don’t also sync them to iPhone using iTunes. • If you turn on iCloud Photo Library, you can’t use iTunes to sync photos and videos to iPhone. Date and time The date and time are usually set for you based on your location—take a look at the Lock screen to see if they’re correct. Set whether iPhone updates the date and time automatically. Go to Settings > General > Date & Time, then turn Set Automatically on or off. If you set iPhone to update the time automatically, it gets the correct time over the cellular network and updates it for the time zone you’re in. Some carriers don’t support network time, so in some areas iPhone may not be able to automatically determine the local time. Set the date and time manually. Go to Settings > General > Date & Time, then turn off Set Automatically. Set whether iPhone shows 24-hour time or 12-hour time. Go to Settings > General > Date & Time, then turn 24-Hour Time on or off. (24-Hour Time may not be available in all areas.) Apple Watch Use the Apple Watch app (not available in all areas) to learn more about Apple Watch, and to pair your Apple Watch with iPhone. Just tap the Apple Watch app, and follow the onscreen instructions. International settings Go to Settings > General > Language & Region to set: • The language for iPhone • The preferred language order for apps and websites • The region format • The calendar format • Advanced settings for dates, times, and numbers To add a keyboard for another language, go to Settings > General > Keyboard > Keyboards. For more information, see Use international keyboards on page 177. Chapter 2 Get started 22 Your iPhone name The name of your iPhone is used by both iTunes and iCloud. Change the name of your iPhone. Go to Settings > General > About > Name. View this user guide on iPhone You can view the iPhone User Guide on iPhone in Safari, and in the iBooks app. View the user guide in Safari. Tap , then tap the iPhone User Guide bookmark. (If you don’t see a bookmark, go to help.apple.com/iphone/.) • Add an icon for the user guide to the Home screen:  Tap , then tap Add to Home Screen. • View the user guide in a different language:  Tap Change Language at the bottom of the home page. View the user guide in iBooks. Open iBooks, then search for “iPhone user” in the iBooks Store. For more information about iBooks, see Chapter 24, iBooks, on page 124. Tips for using iOS 8 The Tips app helps you get the most from iPhone. Get Tips. Open the Tips app. New tips are added weekly. Get notified when new tips arrive. Go to Settings > Notifications > Tips. 3 23 Basics Use apps All the apps that come with iPhone—as well as the apps you download from the App Store—are on the Home screen. Start at home Tap an app to open it. Press the Home button anytime to return to the Home screen. Swipe left or right to see other screens. Chapter 3 Basics 24 Multitasking iPhone helps you manage several tasks at the same time. View contacts and open apps. Double-click the Home button to reveal the multitasking screen. Swipe left or right to see more. To switch to another app, tap it. To connect with a recent or favorite contact, tap the contact’s picture or name, then tap your preferred method of communication. Close an app. If an app isn’t working properly, you can force it to quit. Drag the app up from the multitasking display. Then try opening the app again. If you have lots of apps, you can use Spotlight to find and open them. Drag down the center of the Home screen to see the search field. See Spotlight Search on page 34. Look around Drag a list up or down to see more. Swipe to scroll quickly; touch the screen to stop it. Some lists have an index—tap a letter to jump ahead. Drag a photo, map, or webpage in any direction to see more. To quickly jump to the top of a page, tap the status bar at the top of the screen. Chapter 3 Basics 25 Get a closer look Pinch open on a photo, webpage, or map for a close-up—then pinch closed to zoom back out. In Photos, keep pinching to see the collection or album the photo’s in. Or double-tap a photo or webpage to zoom in, and double-tap again to zoom out. In Maps, double-tap to zoom in and tap once with two fingers to zoom out. Change the screen orientation Many apps give you a different view when you rotate iPhone. 9:41 AM 100% 9:41 AM 100% To lock the screen in portrait orientation, swipe up from the bottom edge of the screen to open Control Center, then tap . The Portrait orientation lock icon appears in the status bar when the screen orientation is locked. When you use iPhone 6 Plus in landscape orientation, some apps have special layouts. These apps include: • Mail • Messages • Calendar • Reminders • Weather • Notes • Clock • Settings • Contacts • Voice Memos • Stocks Note:  These special layouts are not available when Display Zoom is enabled. Chapter 3 Basics 26 Reachability If you have iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus, and are using it in portrait orientation, lightly tap twice on the Home button to slide the screen down (bringing the top half closer to your thumb). Disable Reachability. Tap Settings > General > Accessibility, then tap Reachability (below Interaction). App extensions Some apps let you extend the functionality of your apps on iPhone. An app extension may appear as a sharing option, action option, a widget in Notification Center, a file provider, or a custom keyboard. For example, if you download Pinterest to iPhone, Pinterest becomes another option for sharing when you click . Sharing options Sharing options Action options Action options App extensions can also help you edit a photo or video in your Photos app. For example, you can download a photo-related app that lets you apply filters to photos from your Photos app. Install app extensions. Download the app from the App Store, then open the app and follow the onscreen instructions. Turn sharing or action options on or off. Tap , then tap More (drag options to the left if necessary). Turn off third-party sharing or action options (they are on by default). Organize sharing and action options. Tap , then tap More (drag options to the left if necessary). Touch and drag to rearrange your options. For more information about Notification Center widgets, see Notification Center on page 36. For more information about Sharing options, see Share from apps on page 37. Continuity About Continuity features Continuity features connect iPhone with your iPad, iPod touch, and Mac so they can work together as one. You can start an email or document on iPhone, for example, then pick up where you left off on your iPad. Or let your iPad or Mac use iPhone to make phone calls or send SMS or MMS text messages. Continuity features require iOS 8 or OS X Yosemite, and work with iPhone 5 or later, iPod touch (5th generation) or later, iPad (4th generation) or later, and supported Mac computers. For more information, see support.apple.com/kb/HT6337. Chapter 3 Basics 27 Handoff Pick up on one device where you left off on another. You can use Handoff with Mail, Safari, Pages, Numbers, Keynote, Maps, Messages, Reminders, Calendar, Contacts, and even some third-party apps. For Handoff to work, your devices must be signed in to iCloud using the same Apple ID, and they must be within Bluetooth range of one another (about 33 feet or 10 meters). Switch devices. Swipe up from the bottom-left edge of the Lock screen (where you see the app’s activity icon), or go to the multitasking screen, then tap the app. On your Mac, open the app you were using on your iOS device. Disable Handoff on your devices. Go to Settings > General > Handoff & Suggested Apps. Disable Handoff on your Mac. Go to System Preferences > General, then turn off Allow Handoff between this Mac and your devices set up with iCloud. Phone calls Make and receive phone calls on your iPad, iPod touch, or Mac (with iOS 8 or OS X Yosemite) as long as your iPhone is on the same Wi-Fi network, and signed in to iCloud and FaceTime with the same Apple ID. (If available on your iPhone, Allow Wi-Fi Calls must be off. Go to Settings > Phone > Wi-Fi Calls.) See Make and receive calls on your iPad, iPod touch, or Mac on page 53. Make a phone call on your iPad, iPod touch, or Mac. Tap or click a phone number in Contacts, Calendar, or Safari. On iPad or iPod touch, you can also tap a recent contact in the multitasking screen. Disable iPhone Cellular Calls. Go to Settings > FaceTime, then turn off iPhone Cellular Calls. Messages Switch between your iOS devices and Mac computers (with iOS 8 or OS X Yosemite) as you send and receive SMS and MMS text messages. Just sign in to iMessage with the same Apple ID as your iPhone. For more information, see SMS, MMS, and iMessage on page 78. Instant Hotspot You can use Instant Hotspot on iPhone to provide Internet access to your other iOS devices and Mac computers (with iOS 8 or OS X Yosemite) that are signed in to iCloud using the same Apple ID. Instant Hotspot uses your iPhone Personal Hotspot, without you having to enter a password or even turn on Personal Hotspot. Use Instant Hotspot. Go to Settings > Wi-Fi on your other iOS device, then simply choose your iPhone network under Personal Hotspots. On your Mac, choose your iPhone network from your Wi-Fi settings. When you’re not using using the hotspot, your devices disconnect to save battery life. For more information see Personal Hotspot on page 40. Note:  This feature may not be available with all carriers. Additional fees may apply. Contact your carrier for more information. Chapter 3 Basics 28 Customize iPhone Arrange your apps Arrange apps. Touch and hold any app on the Home screen until it jiggles, then drag apps around. Drag an app to the edge of the screen to move it to a different Home screen, or to the Dock at the bottom of the screen. Press the Home button to save your arrangement. Create a new Home screen. While arranging apps, drag an app to the right edge of the last Home screen. The dots above the Dock show how many Home screens you have, and which one you’re viewing. You can also customize the Home screen using iTunes, when iPhone is connected to your computer. In iTunes, select iPhone, then click Apps. Start over. Go to Settings > General > Reset, then tap Reset Home Screen Layout to return the Home screen and apps to their original layout. Folders are removed and the original wallpaper is restored. Organize with folders Create a folder. While arranging apps, drag one app onto another. Tap the name of the folder to rename it. Drag apps to add or remove them. Press the Home button when you finish. You can have multiple pages of apps in a folder. Delete a folder. Drag out all the apps—the folder is deleted automatically. Chapter 3 Basics 29 Change the wallpaper Wallpaper settings let you set an image or photo as wallpaper for the Lock screen or Home screen. You can choose from dynamic and still images. Change the wallpaper. Go to Settings > Wallpaper > Choose a New Wallpaper. When choosing an image for new wallpaper, the Perspective Zoom button determines whether your selected wallpaper is zoomed. For wallpaper you already set, go to the Wallpaper setting, then tap the image of the Lock screen or Home screen to see the Perspective Zoom button. Note:  The Perspective Zoom button doesn’t appear if Reduce Motion (in Accessibility settings) is turned on. See Reduce screen motion on page 165. Adjust the screen brightness Dim the screen to extend battery life, or use Auto-Brightness. Adjust the screen brightness. Go to Settings > Display & Brightness, then drag the slider. If Auto-Brightness is on, iPhone adjusts the screen brightness for current light conditions using the built-in ambient light sensor. You can also adjust the brightness in Control Center. Display Zoom With iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus you can magnify the screen display. Go to Settings > Display & Brightness. Tap View (below Display Zoom), choose Zoomed, then tap Set. For additional zoom features, see Zoom on page 162. Chapter 3 Basics 30 Type text The onscreen keyboard lets you enter text when needed. Enter text Tap a text field to see the onscreen keyboard, then tap letters to type. If you touch the wrong key, you can slide your finger to the correct key. The letter isn’t entered until you release your finger from the key. 9:41 AM 100% Tap Shift to type uppercase, or touch the Shift key and slide to a letter. Double-tap Shift for caps lock. To enter numbers, punctuation, or symbols, tap the Number key or the Symbol key . If you haven’t added any keyboards, tap to switch to the emoji keyboard. If you have several keyboards, tap to switch to the last one you used. Continue tapping to access other enabled keyboards, or touch and hold , then slide to choose a different keyboard. To quickly end a sentence with a period and a space, just double-tap the space bar. To type an alternate character, touch and hold a key, then slide to choose one of the options. To type an alternate character, touch and hold a key, then slide to choose one of the options. If you see a word underlined in red, tap it to see suggested corrections. If the word you want doesn’t appear, type the correction. As you write, the keyboard predicts your next word (not available in all languages). Tap a word to choose it, or accept a highlighted prediction by entering a space or punctuation. When you tap a suggested word, a space appears after the word. If you enter a comma, period, or other punctuation, the space is deleted. Reject a suggestion by tapping your original word (shown as the predictive text option with quotation marks). Predictive text Predictive text Hide predictive text. Pull down the suggested words. Drag the bar up when you want to see the suggestions again. Chapter 3 Basics 31 Turn off predictive text. Touch and hold or , then slide to Predictive. If you turn off predictive text, iPhone may still try to suggest corrections for misspelled words. Accept a correction by entering a space or punctuation, or by tapping return. To reject a correction, tap the “x.” If you reject the same suggestion a few times, iPhone stops suggesting it. Set options for typing or add keyboards. Go to Settings > General > Keyboard. The onscreen keyboard for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus includes additional keys you may find useful. You can see these keys when you hold iPhone in landscape orientation. You can also use an Apple Wireless Keyboard to enter text. See Use an Apple Wireless Keyboard on page 32. To dictate instead of typing, see Dictate on page 32. Edit text Revise text. Touch and hold the text to show the magnifying glass, then drag to position the insertion point. Select text. Tap the insertion point to display the selection options. Or double-tap a word to select it. Drag the grab points to select more or less text. In read-only documents, such as webpages, touch and hold to select a word. Grab points Grab points You can cut, copy, or paste over selected text. With some apps, you can also get bold, italic, or underlined text (tap B/I/U); get the definition of a word; or have iPhone suggest an alternative. Tap to see all the options. Undo the last edit. Shake iPhone, then tap Undo. Save keystrokes A shortcut lets you enter a word or phrase by typing just a few characters. For example, type “omw” to enter “On my way!” That one’s already set up for you, but you can also add your own. Create a shortcut. Go to Settings > General > Keyboard, then tap Shortcuts. Have a word or phrase you use and don’t want it corrected? Create a shortcut, but leave the Shortcut field blank. Chapter 3 Basics 32 Use iCloud to keep your personal dictionary up to date on your other devices. Go to Settings > iCloud, then turn on iCloud Drive or Documents & Data. Use an Apple Wireless Keyboard You can use an Apple Wireless Keyboard (available separately) to enter text on iPhone. The keyboard connects via Bluetooth, so you must first pair it with iPhone. Note:  The Apple Wireless Keyboard may not support keyboard features that are on your device. For example, it does not anticipate your next word or automatically correct misspelled words. Pair an Apple Wireless Keyboard with iPhone. Turn on the keyboard, go to Settings > Bluetooth and turn on Bluetooth, then tap the keyboard when it appears in the Devices list. Once it’s paired, the keyboard reconnects to iPhone whenever it’s in range—up to about 33 feet (10 meters). When it’s connected, the onscreen keyboard doesn’t appear. Save your batteries. Turn off Bluetooth and the wireless keyboard when not in use. You can turn off Bluetooth in Control Center. To turn off the keyboard, hold down the On/off switch until the green light goes off. Unpair a wireless keyboard. Go to Settings > Bluetooth, tap next to the keyboard name, then tap Forget this Device. See Bluetooth devices on page 42. Add or change keyboards You can turn typing features, such as spell checking, on or off; add keyboards for writing in different languages; and change the layout of your onscreen keyboard or Apple Wireless Keyboard. Set typing features. Go to Settings > General > Keyboard. Add a keyboard for another language. Go to Settings > General > Keyboard > Keyboards > Add New Keyboard. Switch keyboards. If you haven’t added any keyboards, tap to switch to the emoji keyboard. If you have several keyboards, tap to switch to the last one you used. Continue tapping to access other enabled keyboards, or touch and hold , then slide to choose a different keyboard. For information about international keyboards, see Use international keyboards on page 177. Change the keyboard layout. Go to Settings > General > Keyboard > Keyboards, select a keyboard, then choose a layout. Dictate If you like, you can dictate instead of typing. Make sure Enable Dictation is turned on (in Settings > General > Keyboard) and iPhone is connected to the Internet. Note:  Dictation may not be available in all languages or in all areas, and features may vary. Cellular data charges may apply. See Cellular settings on page 190. Chapter 3 Basics 33 Dictate text. Tap on the onscreen keyboard, then speak. Tap Done when you finish. Tap to begin dictation. Tap to begin dictation. Add text. Tap again and continue dictating. To insert text, tap to place the insertion point first. You can also replace selected text by dictating. Add punctuation or format text. Say the punctuation or format. For example, “Dear Mary comma the check is in the mail exclamation mark” becomes “Dear Mary, the check is in the mail!” Punctuation and formatting commands include: • quote … end quote • new paragraph • new line • cap—to capitalize the next word • caps on … caps off—to capitalize the first character of each word • all caps—to make the next word all uppercase • all caps on … all caps off—to make the enclosed words all uppercase • no caps on … no caps off—to make the enclosed words all lowercase • no space on … no space off—to run a series of words together • smiley—to insert :-) • frowny—to insert :-( • winky—to insert ;-) Voice Control Voice Control lets you make phone calls and FaceTime calls, and control music playback, if you have Siri turned off. (For information about using Siri to control iPhone by voice, see Chapter 4, Siri, on page 48.) Note:  Voice Control and Voice Control settings aren’t available when Siri is turned on. Chapter 3 Basics 34 Use Voice Control. Turn Siri off in Settings > General > Siri, then press and hold the Home button until the Voice Control screen appears and you hear a beep, or press and hold the center button on your headset. See Use an Apple headset on page 41. For best results: • Speak clearly and naturally. • Say only Voice Control commands, names, and numbers. Pause slightly between commands. • Use full names. Change the language for Voice Control. By default, Voice Control expects you to speak voice commands in the language that’s set for iPhone (in Settings > General > International > Language). To use Voice Control in another language or dialect, go to Settings > General > International > Voice Control. Voice Control for the Music app is always on, but you can keep Voice Control from dialing when iPhone is locked. Go to Settings > Touch ID & Passcode (iPhone models with Touch ID) or Settings > Passcode (other models), then turn off Voice Dial. For specific commands, see Make a call on page 51 and Siri and Voice Control on page 76. For more about using Voice Control, including information about using Voice Control in different languages, see support.apple.com/kb/HT3597. Search Search apps Many apps include a search field where you can type to find something within the app. For example, in the Maps app, you can search for a specific location. Spotlight Search Spotlight Search not only searches your iPhone, but also shows suggestions from the App Store and the Internet. You may see suggestions for movie showtimes, nearby locations, and more. Search iPhone. Drag down the middle of any Home screen to reveal the search field. Results occur as you type; to hide the keyboard and see more results on the screen, tap Search. Tap an item in the list to open it. You can also use Spotlight Search to find and open apps. Choose which apps and content are searched. Go to Settings > General > Spotlight Search, then tap to deselect apps or content. To change the search order, touch and drag to a new position. Chapter 3 Basics 35 Limit Spotlight Search to your iPhone. Go to Settings > General > Spotlight Search, then tap Spotlight Suggestions to deselect it. Turn off Location Services for Spotlight Suggestions. Go to Settings > Privacy > Location Services. Tap System Services, then turn off Spotlight Suggestions. Control Center Control Center gives you instant access to the camera, calculator, AirPlay, control and playback of currently playing audio, and other handy features. You can also adjust the brightness, lock the screen in portrait orientation, turn wireless services on or off, and turn on AirDrop. See AirDrop on page 37. Open Control Center. Swipe up from the bottom edge of any screen (even the Lock screen). Open the currently playing audio app. Tap the song title. Close Control Center. Swipe down, tap the top of the screen, or press the Home button. Turn off access to Control Center in apps or on the Lock screen. Go to Settings > Control Center. Alerts and Notification Center Alerts Alerts let you know about important events. They can appear briefly at the top of the screen, or remain in the center of the screen until you acknowledge them. Some apps may include a badge on their Home screen icon, to let you know how many new items await—for example, the number of new email messages. If there’s a problem—such as a message that couldn’t be sent—an exclamation mark appears on the badge. On a folder, a numbered badge indicates the total number of notifications for all the apps inside. Alerts can also appear on the Lock screen. Respond to an alert without leaving your current app. Pull down on the alert when it appears at the top of your screen. Note:  This feature works with text and email messages, calendar invitations, and more. Respond to an alert when iPhone is locked. Swipe the alert from right to left. Silence your alerts. Go to Settings > Do Not Disturb. You can also use Siri to turn Do Not Disturb on or off. Say “Turn on Do Not Disturb” or “Turn off Do Not Disturb.” Set sounds and vibrations. Go to Settings > Sounds. Chapter 3 Basics 36 Notification Center Notification Center collects your notifications in one place, so you can review them whenever you’re ready. View details about your day—such as the weather forecast, appointments, birthdays, stock quotes, and even a quick summary of what’s coming up tomorrow. Tap the Notifications tab to review all your alerts. Open Notification Center. Swipe down from the top edge of the screen. Set Today options. To choose what information appears, tap the Edit key at the end of your information on the Today tab. Tap + or — to add or remove information. To arrange the order of your information, touch , then drag it to a new position. Set notification options. Go to Settings > Notifications. Tap an app to set its notification options. For example, choose to view a notification from the Lock screen. You can also tap Edit to arrange the order of app notifications. Touch , then drag it to a new position. Note:  To include traffic conditions for your commute in the Today tab, make sure Frequent Locations is turned on in Settings > Privacy > Location Services > System Services > Frequent Locations. Get government alerts. In some areas, you can turn on alerts in the Government Alerts list. Go to Settings > Notifications. For example, in the United States, iPhone can receive presidential alerts, and you can turn AMBER and Emergency Alerts (which includes both Severe and Extreme Imminent Threat alerts) on or off (they’re on by default). In Japan, iPhone can receive Emergency Earthquake Alerts from the Japan Meteorological Agency. Government alerts vary by carrier and iPhone model, and may not work under all conditions. Choose whether to show Today and Notifications View on a locked screen. Go to Settings > Touch ID & Passcode (iPhone models with Touch ID) or Settings > Passcode (other models), then choose whether to allow access when locked. Close Notification Center. Swipe up, or press the Home button. Sounds and silence You can change or turn off the sounds iPhone plays when you get a call, text, voicemail, email, tweet, Facebook post, reminder, or other event. Set sound options. Go to Settings > Sounds for options such as ringtones and alert tones, vibration settings and patterns, and ringer and alert volumes. Set vibration patterns. Go to Settings > Sounds, then choose an item from the Sounds and Vibration Patterns list. Tap Vibration to select a pattern or create your own. If you want to temporarily silence incoming calls, alerts, and sound effects, see the following section and Ring/Silent switch on page 13. Chapter 3 Basics 37 Do Not Disturb Do Not Disturb is an easy way to silence iPhone, whether you’re going to dinner or to sleep. It keeps calls and alerts from making any sounds or lighting up the screen. Turn on Do Not Disturb. Swipe up from the bottom edge of the screen to open Control Center, then tap . When Do Not Disturb is on, appears in the status bar. Note:  Alarms still sound, even when Do Not Disturb is on. To make sure iPhone stays silent, turn it off. Configure Do Not Disturb. Go to Settings > Do Not Disturb. You can schedule quiet hours, allow calls from your Favorites or groups of contacts, and allow repeated calls to ring through for those emergency situations. You can also set whether Do Not Disturb silences iPhone only when it’s locked, or even when it’s unlocked. Sharing Share from apps In many apps, you can tap Share or to choose how to share your information. The choices vary depending on the app you’re using. Additional options may appear if you’ve downloaded apps with sharing options. For more information, see App extensions on page 26. Use Twitter, Facebook, Flickr, Vimeo or other third-party apps with sharing options. Sign in to your account in Settings. The third-party sharing buttons take you to the appropriate setting if you’re not yet signed in. Customize the different ways you choose to share your information. Tap the More button, then touch and drag to move items to new positions. AirDrop AirDrop lets you share your photos, videos, websites, locations, and other items wirelessly with other nearby devices (iOS 7 or later). With iOS 8, you can share with Mac computers with OS X Yosemite. AirDrop transfers information using Wi-Fi and Bluetooth—both must be turned on. To use AirDrop, you need to be signed in to iCloud using your Apple ID. Transfers are encrypted for security. Tap to share with a nearby friend using AirDrop. Tap to share with a nearby friend using AirDrop. Share an item using AirDrop. Tap Share , then tap the name of a nearby AirDrop user. Receive AirDrop items from others. Swipe up from the bottom edge of the screen to open Control Center. Tap AirDrop, then choose to receive items from Contacts Only or from Everyone. You can accept or decline each request as it arrives. Chapter 3 Basics 38 Family Sharing With Family Sharing, up to six family members can share their iTunes Store, iBooks Store, and App Store purchases, a family calendar, and family photos, all without sharing accounts. One adult in your household—the family organizer—invites family members to join the family group and agrees to pay for any iTunes Store, iBooks Store, and App Store purchases those family members initiate while part of the family group. Once set up, family members get immediate access to each other’s music, movies, TV shows, books, and eligible apps. In addition, family members can easily share photos in a shared family album, add events to a family calendar, share their location with other family members, and even help locate another family member’s missing device. Children under 13 can participate in Family Sharing, too. As a parent or legal guardian, the family organizer can provide parental consent for a child to have his or her own Apple ID, and create it on the child’s behalf. Once the account is created, it’s added to the family group automatically. Family Sharing requires you to sign in to iCloud with your Apple ID. You will also be asked to confirm the Apple ID you use for the iTunes Store, App Store, and iBooks Store. It is available on devices with iOS 8, Mac computers with OS X Yosemite, and PCs with iCloud for Windows 4.0. You can be part of only one family group at a time. Set up Family Sharing. Go to Settings > iCloud > Set Up Family Sharing. Follow the onscreen instructions to set up Family Sharing as the family organizer, then invite family members to join. Create an Apple ID for a child. Go to Settings > iCloud > Family, scroll to the bottom of the screen, then tap Create an Apple ID for a child. Accept an invitation to Family Sharing. Make sure you are signed in to iCloud, and that you can accept a Family Sharing invitation from your iOS device (iOS 8 required), Mac (OS X Yosemite required), or PC (iCloud for Windows 4.0 required). Or, if the organizer is nearby during the setup process, he or she can simply ask you to enter the Apple ID and password you use for iCloud. Access shared iTunes Store, App Store, and iBooks Store purchases. Open iTunes Store, iBooks Store, or App Store, tap Purchased, then choose a family member from the menu that appears. When a family member initiates a purchase, it is billed directly to the family organizer’s account. Once purchased, the item is added to the initiating family member’s account and is shared with the rest of the family. If Family Sharing is ever disabled, each person keeps the items they chose to purchase—even if they were paid for by the family organizer. Turn on Ask to Buy. The family organizer can require young family members to request approval for purchases or free downloads. Go to Settings > iCloud > Family, then tap the person’s name. Note:  Age restrictions for Ask to Buy vary by area. In the United States, the family organizer can enable Ask to Buy for any family member under age 18; for children under age 13, it’s enabled by default. Chapter 3 Basics 39 Hide your iTunes Store, App Store, and iBooks Store purchases. To hide all your purchases from family members, tap Settings > iCloud > Family > [your name], then turn off Share My Purchases. On your computer, you can also hide specific purchases so they aren’t available to other family members. See support.apple.com/en-us/HT201322. Share photos or videos with family members. When you set up Family Sharing, a shared album called “Family” is automatically created in the Photos app on all family members’ devices. To share a photo or video with family members, open the Photos app, then view a photo or video or select multiple photos or videos. Tap , tap iCloud Photo Sharing, add comments, then share to your shared family album. See iCloud Photo Sharing on page 89. Add an event to the family calendar. When you set up Family Sharing, a shared calendar called “Family” is automatically created in the Calendar app on all family members’ devices. To add a family event, open the Calendar app, create an event, then choose to add the event to the family calendar. See Share iCloud calendars on page 85. Set up a family reminder. When you set up Family Sharing, a shared list is automatically created in the Reminders app on all family members’ devices. To add a reminder to the family list, open the Reminders app, tap the family list, then add a reminder to the list. See Reminders at a glance on page 110. Share your location with family members. Family members can share their location by tapping Settings > iCloud > Share My Location (under Advanced). To find a family member’s location, use the Find My Friends app (download it for free from the App Store). Or, use the Messages app (iOS 8 required). For more information about using Messages to share or view locations, see Share photos, videos, your location, and more on page 81. Keep track of your family’s devices. If family members have enabled Share My Location in iCloud, you can help them locate missing devices. Open Find My iPhone on your device or at iCloud.com. For more information, see Find My iPhone on page 46. Leave Family Sharing. Go to Settings > iCloud > Family, then tap Leave Family Sharing. If you are the organizer, go to Settings > iCloud > Family, tap your name, then tap Stop Family Sharing. For more information, see support.apple.com/kb/HT201081. iCloud Drive About iCloud Drive iCloud Drive stores your presentations, spreadsheets, PDFs, images, and any other kind of document in iCloud so you can access these documents from any of your devices set up with iCloud. It allows your apps to share documents so you can work on the same file across multiple apps. iCloud Drive works with devices with iOS 8, Mac computers with OS X Yosemite, PCs with iCloud for Windows 4.0, or on iCloud.com. To access iCloud Drive, you must be signed in to iCloud with your Apple ID. iCloud Drive is integrated with Pages, Numbers, Keynote, GarageBand, and iCloudenabled third-party apps. Storage limits are subject to your iCloud storage plan. Note:  iCloud Drive is automatically turned on for new accounts and users (iOS 8 or later). Chapter 3 Basics 40 Set up iCloud Drive If iCloud Drive is not turned on, you can set it up using Setup assistant when you install iOS 8, or you can set it up later in Settings. iCloud Drive is an upgrade to Documents & Data. When you upgrade to iCloud Drive, your documents are copied to iCloud Drive and become available on your devices using iCloud Drive. You won’t be able to access the documents stored in iCloud Drive on your other devices until they are also upgraded to iOS 8 or OS X Yosemite. For more information about upgrading to iCloud Drive, see support.apple.com/kb/HT6345. Set up iCloud Drive. Go to Settings > iCloud > iCloud Drive, then turn on iCloud Drive and follow the onscreen instructions. Transfer files There are several ways to transfer files between iPhone and your computer or other iOS device. Transfer files using iTunes. Connect iPhone to your computer using the included cable. In iTunes on your computer, select iPhone, then click Apps. Use the File Sharing section to transfer documents between iPhone and your computer. Apps that support file sharing appear in the File Sharing Apps list in iTunes. To delete a file, select it in the Documents list, then press the Delete key. You can also view files received as email attachments on iPhone. With some apps, you can transfer files using AirDrop. See AirDrop on page 37. Personal Hotspot Use Personal Hotspot to share your iPhone Internet connection. Computers can share your Internet connection using Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, or a USB cable. Other iOS devices can share the connection using Wi-Fi. Personal Hotspot works only if iPhone is connected to the Internet over the cellular data network. Note:  This feature may not be available with all carriers. Additional fees may apply. Contact your carrier for more information. Share an Internet connection. Go to Settings > Cellular, then tap Personal Hotspot—if it appears—to set up the service with your carrier. After you turn on Personal Hotspot, other devices can connect in the following ways: • Wi-Fi:  On the device, choose your iPhone from the list of available Wi-Fi networks. • USB:  Connect iPhone to your computer using the cable that came with it. In your computer’s Network preferences, choose iPhone and configure the network settings. • Bluetooth:  On iPhone, go to Settings > Bluetooth, then turn on Bluetooth. To pair and connect iPhone with your Bluetooth device, refer to the documentation that came with your device. Note:  When a device is connected, a blue band appears at the top of the iPhone screen. The Personal Hotspot icon appears in the status bar of iOS devices using Personal Hotspot. Change the Wi-Fi password for iPhone. Go to Settings > Personal Hotspot > Wi-Fi Password, then enter a password of at least 8 characters. Monitor your cellular data network usage. Go to Settings > Cellular. See Cellular settings on page 190. Chapter 3 Basics 41 AirPlay Use AirPlay to stream music, photos, and video wirelessly to Apple TV and other AirPlay-enabled devices. If you don’t see your AirPlay-enabled devices when you tap , you may also need to make sure everything is on the same Wi-Fi network. Display the AirPlay controls. Swipe up from the bottom edge of the screen to open Control Center, then tap . Stream content. Tap , then choose the device you want to stream to. Switch back to iPhone. Tap , then choose iPhone. Mirror the iPhone screen on a TV. Tap , choose an Apple TV, then tap Mirroring. A blue bar appears at the top of the iPhone screen when AirPlay mirroring is turned on. You can also connect iPhone to a TV, projector, or other external display using the appropriate Apple cable or adapter. See support.apple.com/kb/HT4108. AirPrint Use AirPrint to print wirelessly to an AirPrint-enabled printer from apps such as Mail, Photos, and Safari. Many apps available on the App Store also support AirPrint. iPhone and the printer must be on the same Wi-Fi network. For more information about AirPrint, see support.apple.com/kb/HT4356. Print a document. Tap or (depending on the app you’re using). See the status of a print job. Double-click the Home button, then tap Print Center. The badge on the icon shows how many documents are in the queue. Cancel a job. Select it in Print Center, then tap Cancel Printing. Use an Apple headset The Apple EarPods with Remote and Mic (iPhone 5 or later) and the Apple Earphones with Remote and Mic (iPhone 4s) feature a microphone, volume buttons, and the center button, which lets you answer and end calls or control audio and video playback, even when iPhone is locked. Center button Center button Use the center button to control music playback. • Pause a song or video: Press the center button. Press again to resume playback. • Skip to the next song: Press the center button twice quickly. • Return to the previous song: Press the center button three times quickly. • Fast-forward: Press the center button twice quickly and hold. • Rewind: Press the center button three times quickly and hold. Use the center button to answer or make phone calls. Chapter 3 Basics 42 • Answer an incoming call: Press the center button. • End the current call: Press the center button. • Decline an incoming call: Press and hold the center button for about two seconds, then let go. Two low beeps confirm you declined the call. • Switch to an incoming or on-hold call, and put the current call on hold: Press the center button. Press again to switch back to the first call. • Switch to an incoming or on-hold call, and end the current call: Press and hold the center button for about two seconds, then let go. Two low beeps confirm you ended the first call. Use Siri or Voice Control. Press and hold the center button. See Chapter 4, Siri, on page 48 or Voice Control on page 33. Bluetooth devices You can use Bluetooth devices with iPhone, including headsets, car kits, stereo headphones, or an Apple Wireless Keyboard. For supported Bluetooth profiles, see support.apple.com/kb/HT3647. WARNING:  For important information about avoiding hearing loss and avoiding distractions that could lead to dangerous situations, see Important safety information on page 183. Note:  The use of certain accessories with iPhone may affect wireless performance. Not all iPod and iPad accessories are fully compatible with iPhone. Turning on Airplane Mode may eliminate audio interference between iPhone and an accessory. Reorienting or relocating iPhone and the connected accessory may improve wireless performance. Turn Bluetooth on or off. Go to Settings > Bluetooth. You can also turn Bluetooth on or off in Control Center. Connect to a Bluetooth device. Tap the device in the Devices list, then follow the onscreen instructions to connect to it. See the documentation that came with the device for information about Bluetooth pairing. For information about using an Apple Wireless Keyboard, see Use an Apple Wireless Keyboard on page 32. iPhone must be within about 33 feet (10 meters) of the Bluetooth device. Return audio output to iPhone. Turn off or unpair the device, turn off Bluetooth in Settings > Bluetooth, or use AirPlay to switch audio output to iPhone. See AirPlay on page 41. Audio output returns to iPhone whenever the Bluetooth device is out of range. Bypass your Bluetooth device. To use the iPhone receiver or speaker for phone calls: • Answer a call by tapping the iPhone screen. • During a call, tap Audio and choose iPhone or Speaker Phone. • Turn off the Bluetooth device, unpair it, or move out of range. • Turn off Bluetooth in Settings > Bluetooth. Unpair a device. Go to Settings > Bluetooth, tap next to the device, then tap Forget this Device. If you don’t see the Devices list, make sure Bluetooth is on. Chapter 3 Basics 43 Restrictions You can set restrictions for some apps, and for purchased content. For example, parents can restrict explicit music from appearing in playlists, or disallow changes to certain settings. Use restrictions to prevent the use of certain apps, the installation of new apps, or changes to accounts or the volume limit. Turn on restrictions. Go to Settings > General > Restrictions, then tap Enable Restrictions. You’ll be asked to define a restrictions passcode that’s necessary to change the settings you make. This can be different from the passcode for unlocking iPhone. Important:  If you forget your restrictions passcode, you must restore the iPhone software. See Restore iPhone on page 189. Privacy Privacy settings let you see and control which apps and system services have access to Location Services, and to contacts, calendars, reminders, and photos. Location Services lets location-based apps such as Reminders, Maps, and Camera gather and use data indicating your location. Your approximate location is determined using available information from cellular network data, local Wi-Fi networks (if you have Wi-Fi turned on), and GPS (may not be available in all areas). The location data collected by Apple isn’t collected in a form that personally identifies you. When an app is using Location Services, appears in the status bar. Turn Location Services on or off. Go to Settings > Privacy > Location Services. You can turn it off for some or for all apps and services. If you turn off Location Services, you’re prompted to turn it on again the next time an app or service tries to use it. Turn Location Services off for system services. Several system services, such as compass calibration and location-based ads, use Location Services. To see their status, turn them on or off, or show in the status bar when these services use your location, go to Settings > Privacy > Location Services > System Services. Turn off access to private information. Go to Settings > Privacy. You can see which apps and features have requested and been granted access to the following information: • Contacts • Calendar • Reminders • Photos • Bluetooth Sharing • Microphone • Camera • HomeKit • Health • Motion Activity • Twitter • Facebook You can turn off each app’s access to each category of information. Review the terms and privacy policy for each third-party app to understand how it uses the data it’s requesting. For more information, see support.apple.com/kb/HT6338. Chapter 3 Basics 44 Security Security features help protect the information on your iPhone from being accessed by others. Use a passcode with data protection For better security, you can set a passcode that must be entered each time you turn on or wake up iPhone. Set a passcode. Go to Settings > Touch ID & Passcode (iPhone models with Touch ID) or Settings > Passcode (other models), then set a 4-digit passcode. Setting a passcode turns on data protection, using your passcode as a key to encrypt Mail messages and attachments stored on iPhone, using 256-bit AES encryption. (Other apps may also use data protection.) Increase security. Turn off Simple Passcode and use a longer passcode. To enter a passcode that’s a combination of numbers and letters, you use the keyboard. If you prefer to unlock iPhone using the numeric keypad, set up a longer passcode using numbers only. Add fingerprints and set options for the Touch ID sensor. (iPhone models with Touch ID) Go to Settings > Touch ID & Passcode. See Touch ID, below. Allow access to features when iPhone is locked. Go to Settings > Touch ID & Passcode (iPhone models with Touch ID) or Settings > Passcode (other models). Optional features include: • Today (see Notification Center on page 36) • Notifications View (see Notification Center on page 36) • Siri (if enabled, see Siri settings on page 50) • Passbook (see Chapter 26, Passbook, on page 131) • Reply with Message (see When someone calls on page 52) Allow access to Control Center when iPhone is locked. Go to Settings > Control Center. See Control Center on page 35. Erase data after ten failed passcode attempts. Go to Settings > Touch ID & Passcode (iPhone models with Touch ID) or Settings > Passcode (other models), then tap Erase Data. After ten failed passcode attempts, all settings are reset, and all your information and media are erased by removing the encryption key to the data. If you forget your passcode, you must restore the iPhone software. See Restore iPhone on page 189. Touch ID On iPhone models with Touch ID, you can unlock iPhone by placing a finger on the Home button. Touch ID also lets you: • Use your Apple ID password to make purchases in the iTunes Store, App Store, or iBooks Store • Present your credit card or debit card when making a purchase in a store that offers Apple Pay as a method of payment • Provide debit and credit card info, billing and shipping addresses, and contact info when paying in an app that offers Apple Pay as a method of payment Set up the Touch ID sensor. Go to Settings > Touch ID & Passcode. Set whether you want to use a fingerprint to unlock iPhone, and to make purchases. Tap Add a Fingerprint, then follow the onscreen instructions. You can add more than one fingerprint (your thumb and forefinger, for example, or one for your spouse). Chapter 3 Basics 45 Note:  If you turn iPhone off after setting up the Touch ID sensor, you’ll be asked to confirm your passcode when you turn iPhone back on and unlock it the first time. You’ll also be asked for your Apple ID password for the first purchase you make in the iTunes Store, App Store, or iBooks Store. Delete a fingerprint. Tap the fingerprint, then tap Delete Fingerprint. If you have more than one fingerprint, place a finger on the Home button to find out which fingerprint it is. Name a fingerprint. Tap the fingerprint, then enter a name, such as “Thumb.” Use the Touch ID sensor to make a payment in the iTunes Store, App Store, or iBooks Store. When purchasing from the iTunes Store, App Store, or iBooks Store, follow the prompts to enable purchases with your fingerprint. Or go to Settings > Touch ID & Passcode, then turn on iTunes & App Store. Use Touch ID for Apple Pay. (iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus) Go to Settings > Touch ID & Passcode to ensure that Apple Pay is enabled with your Touch ID. For more information see Apple Pay on page 132. iCloud Keychain iCloud Keychain keeps your Safari website user names and passwords, credit card information, and Wi-Fi network information up to date. iCloud Keychain works on all your approved devices (iOS 7 or later) and Mac computers (OS X Mavericks or later). iCloud Keychain works with Safari Password Generator and AutoFill. When you’re setting up a new account, Safari Password Generator suggests unique, hard-to-guess passwords. You can use AutoFill to have iPhone enter your user name and password info, making login easy. See Fill in forms on page 67. Note:  Some websites do not support AutoFill. iCloud Keychain is secured with 256-bit AES encryption during storage and transmission, and cannot be read by Apple. Set up iCloud Keychain. Go to Settings > iCloud > Keychain. Turn on iCloud Keychain, then follow the onscreen instructions. If you set up iCloud Keychain on other devices, you need to approve use of iCloud Keychain from one of those devices, or use your iCloud Security Code. Important:  If you forget your iCloud Security Code, you have to start over and set up your iCloud Keychain again. Set up AutoFill. Go to Settings > Safari > Passwords & AutoFill. Make sure Names and Passwords, and Credit Cards, are turned on (they’re on by default). To add credit card info, tap Saved Credit Cards. The security code for your credit card is not saved—you have to enter that manually. To automatically fill in names, passwords, or credit card info on sites that support it, tap a text field, then tap AutoFill. To protect your personal information, set a passcode if you turn on iCloud Keychain and AutoFill. Limit Ad Tracking Restrict or reset Ad Tracking. Go to Settings > Privacy > Advertising. Turn on Limit Ad Tracking to prevent apps from accessing your iPhone advertising identifier. For more information, tap About Advertising & Privacy. Chapter 3 Basics 46 Find My iPhone Find My iPhone can help you locate and secure your iPhone using the free Find My iPhone app (available in the App Store) on another iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch, or using a Mac or PC web browser signed in to www.icloud.com/find. Find My iPhone includes Activation Lock, which is designed to prevent anyone else from using your iPhone if you ever lose it. Your Apple ID and password are required to turn off Find My iPhone or to erase and reactivate your iPhone. Turn on Find My iPhone. Go to Settings > iCloud > Find My iPhone. Important:  To use Find My iPhone features, Find My iPhone must be turned on before your iPhone is lost. iPhone must be able to connect to the Internet for you to locate and secure the device. iPhone sends its last location prior to the battery running out when Send Last Location in Settings is turned on. Use Find My iPhone. Open the Find My iPhone app on an iOS device, or go to www.icloud.com/find on your computer. Sign in, then select your device. • Play Sound:  Play a sound at full volume for two minutes, even if the ringer is set to silent. • Lost Mode:  Immediately lock your missing iPhone with a passcode and send it a message displaying a contact number. iPhone tracks and reports its location, so you can see where it’s been when you check the Find My iPhone app. Lost Mode also suspends the use of your credit and debit cards used for Apple Pay (iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus). See Apple Pay on page 132. • Erase iPhone:  Protect your privacy by erasing all the information and media on your iPhone and restoring it to its original factory settings. Erase iPhone also removes the ability to make payments using your credit and debit cards used for Apple Pay (iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus). See Apple Pay on page 132. Note:  Before selling or giving away your iPhone, you should erase it completely to remove all of your personal data and turn off Find My iPhone to ensure the next owner can activate and use the device normally. Go to Settings > General > Reset > Erase All Content and Settings. See Sell or give away iPhone on page 191. Charge and monitor the battery iPhone has an internal, lithium-ion rechargeable battery. For more information about the battery—including tips for maximizing battery life—see www.apple.com/batteries/. WARNING:  For important safety information about the battery and charging iPhone, see Important safety information on page 183. Charge the battery. Connect iPhone to a power outlet using the included cable and USB power adapter. Note:  Connecting iPhone to a power outlet can start an iCloud backup or wireless iTunes syncing. See Back up iPhone on page 188 and Sync with iTunes on page 20. Chapter 3 Basics 47 You can also charge the battery by connecting iPhone to your computer, which also allows you to sync iPhone with iTunes. See Sync with iTunes on page 20. Unless your keyboard has a highpower USB 2.0 or 3.0 port, you must connect iPhone to a USB 2.0 or 3.0 port on your computer. Important:  The iPhone battery may drain instead of charge if iPhone is connected to a computer that’s turned off or is in sleep or standby mode. See proportion of battery used by each app. Go to Settings > General > Usage, then tap Battery Usage. The battery icon in the upper-right corner shows the battery level or charging status. To display the percentage of battery charge remaining, go to Settings > General > Usage. When syncing or using iPhone, it may take longer to charge the battery. Important:  If iPhone is very low on power, it may display an image of a nearly depleted battery, indicating that iPhone needs to charge for up to ten minutes before you can use it. If iPhone is extremely low on power, the display may be blank for up to two minutes before the low-battery image appears. Rechargeable batteries have a limited number of charge cycles and may eventually need to be replaced. The iPhone battery isn’t user replaceable; it should be replaced only by Apple or an authorized service provider. See www.apple.com/batteries/service-and-recycling/. Travel with iPhone If you travel outside your carrier’s network area, you can avoid roaming charges by turning off voice and data roaming services in Settings > Cellular. See Cellular settings on page 190. Some airlines let you keep your iPhone turned on if you switch to Airplane Mode. You can’t make calls or use Bluetooth, but you can listen to music, play games, watch videos, or use other apps that don’t require network or phone connections. If the airline allows it, you can turn Wi-Fi or Bluetooth back on to enable those services, even while in Airplane Mode. Turn on Airplane Mode. Swipe up from the bottom edge of the screen to open Control Center, then tap . You can also turn Airplane Mode on or off in Settings. When Airplane Mode is on, appears in the status bar at the top of the screen. You can also turn Wi-Fi and Bluetooth on or off in Control Center. 4 48 Siri Make requests Siri lets you speak to iPhone to send messages, schedule meetings, place phone calls, and much more. Siri understands natural speech, so you don’t have to learn special commands or keywords. Ask Siri anything, from “set the timer for 3 minutes” to “what movies are showing tonight?” Open apps, and turn features like Airplane Mode, Bluetooth, Do Not Disturb, and VoiceOver on or off. Siri is great for keeping you updated with the latest sports info, helping you decide on a restaurant, and searching the iTunes Store or App Store for purchases. Note:  To use Siri, iPhone must be connected to the Internet. See Connect to the Internet on page 17. Cellular charges may apply. Summon Siri. Press and hold the Home button until Siri beeps, then make your request. Control when Siri listens. Instead of letting Siri notice when you stop talking, you can continue to hold down the Home button while you speak, and release it when you finish. Hey Siri. With iPhone connected to a power source (or if you’ve already started a conversation with Siri), you can use Siri without even pressing the Home button. Just say “Hey Siri,” then make your request. To turn Hey Siri on or off, go to Settings > General > Siri > Allow “Hey Siri”. If you’re using a headset, you can use the center or call button in place of the Home button. Tap to speak to Siri. Tap to speak to Siri. Response from Siri Response from Siri Often you can tap the screen for additional info or further action. Often you can tap the screen for additional info or further action. For hints, ask Siri “what can you do,” or tap . Depending on your request, the onscreen response from Siri often includes information or images that you can tap for additional detail, or to perform some other action like searching the web or opening a related app. Change the voice gender for Siri. Go to Settings > General > Siri (may not be available in all areas). Adjust the volume for Siri. Use the volume buttons while you’re interacting with Siri. Chapter 4 Siri 49 Siri and apps Siri works with many of the apps on iPhone, including Phone, Messages, Maps, Clock, Calendar, and more. For example, you can say things like: • “Call Mom at home” • “Do I have any new texts from Rick?” • “I’m running low on gas” • “Set an alarm for 8 a.m.” • “Cancel all my meetings on Friday” More examples of how you can use Siri with apps appear throughout this guide. Tell Siri about yourself If you tell Siri about yourself—including things like your home and work addresses, and your relationships—you can get personalized service like, “remind me to call my wife when I get home.” Tell Siri who you are. Fill out your info card in Contacts, then go to Settings > General > Siri > My Info and tap your name. To let Siri know about a relationship, say something like “Emily Parker is my wife.” Note:  Siri uses Location Services when your requests require knowing your location. See Privacy on page 43. Make corrections If Siri doesn’t get something right, you can tap to edit your request. Or tap again, then clarify your request verbally. Want to cancel that last command? Say “cancel,” tap the Siri icon, or press the Home button. Siri Eyes Free With Siri Eyes Free, you can use iPhone features in your car without looking at or touching iPhone—you can control it completely by speaking. To talk with Siri, press and hold the voice command button on your steering wheel until you hear the Siri tone. You can ask Siri to call people, select and play music, hear and compose text messages, get directions, read your notifications, find calendar information, add reminders, and more. Siri Eyes Free is available on select automobiles. WARNING:  For important information about avoiding distractions that could lead to dangerous situations, see Important safety information on page 183. Use Siri Eyes Free. Connect iPhone to your car using Bluetooth. Refer to the user guide that came with your car. For more information about using Siri in your car, see About CarPlay on page 180. Chapter 4 Siri 50 Siri settings To set options for Siri, go to Settings > General > Siri. Options include: • Turning Siri on or off • Turning Allow “Hey Siri” on or off • Language • Voice gender (may not be available in all areas) • Voice feedback • My Info card Prevent access to Siri when iPhone is locked. Go to Settings > Touch ID & Passcode (iPhone models with Touch ID) or Settings > Passcode (other models). You can also disable Siri by turning on restrictions. See Restrictions on page 43. 5 51 Phone Phone calls Make a call Making a call on iPhone is as simple as choosing a number in your contacts, or tapping one of your favorites or recent calls. WARNING:  For important information about avoiding distractions that could lead to dangerous situations, see Important safety information on page 183. Add favorites. With Favorites, you can make a call with a single tap. To add someone to your Favorites list, tap . You can also add names to Favorites from Contacts. In Contacts, tap Add to Favorites at the bottom of a card, then tap the number to add. Delete a name or rearrange your Favorites list. Tap Edit. Return a recent call. Tap Recents, then tap the call. Tap to get more info about the call, or the caller. A red badge indicates the number of missed calls. You can also reach recent and favorite people you’ve been in contact with from the multitasking screen—just double-click the Home button. Dial manually. Tap Keypad, enter the number, then tap Call. • Paste a number to the keypad:  Tap the screen above the keyboard, then tap Paste. • Enter a soft (2-second) pause:  Touch the “*” key until a comma appears. Chapter 5 Phone 52 • Enter a hard pause (to pause dialing until you tap the Dial button): Touch the “#” key until a semicolon appears. • Redial the last number:  Tap Keypad, tap Call to display the number, then tap Call again. Use Siri or Voice Control. Press and hold the Home button, say “call” or “dial,” then say the name or number. You can add “at home,” “work,” or “mobile.” See Chapter 4, Siri, on page 48 and Voice Control on page 33. You can say things like: • “Call Emily’s mobile” • “Call the fire department” • “Redial that last number” When voice dialing a number, speak each digit separately—for example, “four one five, five five five….” For the 800 area code in the U.S., you can say “eight hundred.” Call over Wi-Fi. (Not available in all areas. iPhone 5c, iPhone 5s, or later.) To route calls over Wi-Fi, go to Settings > Phone, then turn on Wi-Fi Calling. On iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, if the Wi-Fi connection is lost, calls switch automatically to your carrier’s cellular network using VoLTE (Voice over LTE), if available. (VoLTE calls also switch to Wi-Fi when a Wi-Fi connection becomes available.) On earlier models, a call is dropped if you lose the Wi-Fi connection. Contact your carrier for feature availability. When someone calls Tap Accept to answer an incoming call. Or if iPhone is locked, drag the slider. You can also press the center button on your headset. Silence a call. Press the Sleep/Wake button or either volume button. You can still answer the call after silencing it, until it goes to voicemail. Decline a call and send it directly to voicemail. Do one of the following: • Press the Sleep/Wake button twice quickly. • Press and hold the center button on your headset for about two seconds. Two low beeps confirm that the call was declined. • Tap Decline (if iPhone is awake when the call comes in). Note:  In some areas, declined calls are disconnected without being sent to voicemail. Respond with a text message instead of answering. Tap Message, then choose a reply or tap Custom. To create your own default replies, go to Settings > Phone > Respond with Text, then tap any of the default messages and replace it with your own text. Remind yourself to return the call. Tap Remind Me, then indicate when you want to be reminded. Chapter 5 Phone 53 Make and receive calls on your iPad, iPod touch, or Mac Continuity (iOS 8 or later) lets you make and receive calls on your iPad or iPod touch, or on your Mac (with OS X Yosemite). Calls are relayed through your iPhone, which must be turned on and connected to a cellular network. Cellular charges may apply. See About Continuity features on page 26. Your other iOS device or Mac must be connected to the same Wi-Fi network and signed in to FaceTime and iCloud using the same Apple ID as your iPhone. Enable or disable iPhone Cellular Calls through iPhone. On your iPhone, go to Settings > FaceTime, then turn iPhone Cellular Calls on or off. Note:  If available on your iPhone, Allow Wi-Fi Calls must be off. Go to Settings > Phone > Wi-Fi Calls. • Turn iPhone Cellular Calls on or off for another iOS device: On the device, go to Settings > FaceTime. • Turn iPhone Cellular Calls on or off for your Mac: On your Mac, open FaceTime, then choose FaceTime > Preferences > Settings. Receive a call on your iPad, iPod touch, or Mac. Swipe or click the notification to answer, ignore, or respond with a quick message. Make a call from your iPad, iPod touch, or Mac. Tap or click a phone number in Contacts, Calendar, FaceTime, Messages, Spotlight, or Safari. You can also tap a phone number from a recent contact in the multitasking screen on an iOS device. Keep it quiet Want to go offline for a while? Swipe up from the bottom edge of the screen to open Control Center, then turn on Do Not Disturb or Airplane Mode. See Do Not Disturb on page 37 and Travel with iPhone on page 47. Block unwanted callers. On a contact card, tap Block this Caller (you can see a caller’s contact card from Favorites or Recents by tapping ). You can also block callers in Settings > Phone > Blocked. You will not receive voice calls, FaceTime calls, or text messages from blocked callers. For more information about blocking calls, see support.apple.com/kb/HT5845. While on a call When you’re on a call, the screen shows several call options. Mute your line. Or touch and hold to put your call on hold. Mute your line. Or touch and hold to put your call on hold. Dial or enter a number. Dial or enter a number. Use the speakerphone or a Bluetooth device. Use the speakerphone or a Bluetooth device. Get contact info. Get contact info. Make a FaceTime call. Make a FaceTime call. Make another call. Make another call. End a call. Tap or press the Sleep/Wake button. Chapter 5 Phone 54 Use another app while on a call. Press the Home button, then open the app. To return to the call, tap the green bar at the top of the screen. Respond to a second call. You can: • Ignore the call and send it to voicemail:  Tap Ignore. • Put the first call on hold and answer the new one:  Tap Hold + Accept. • End the first call and answer the new one:  When using a GSM network, tap End + Accept. With a CDMA network, tap End and when the second call rings back, tap Accept, or drag the slider if iPhone is locked. With a call on hold, tap Swap to switch between calls or tap Merge Calls to talk with both parties at once. See Conference calls, below. Note:  With CDMA, you can’t switch between calls if the second call was outgoing, but you can merge the calls. You can’t merge calls if the second call was incoming. If you end the second call or the merged call, both calls are terminated. Conference calls With GSM, you can set up a conference call with up to five people (depending on your carrier). Note:  Conference calls may not be available if your call is using VoLTE (Voice over LTE). Create a conference call. While on a call, tap Add Call, make another call, then tap Merge Calls. Repeat to add more people to the conference. • Drop one person: Tap next to a person, then tap End. • Talk privately with one person: Tap , then tap Private next to the person. Tap Merge Calls to resume the conference. • Add an incoming caller: Tap Hold Call + Answer, then tap Merge Calls. Emergency calls Make an emergency call when iPhone is locked. On the Enter Passcode screen, tap Emergency Call (to dial 911 in the U.S., for example). Important:  You can use iPhone to make an emergency call in many locations, provided that cellular service is available, but you should not rely on it for emergencies. Some cellular networks may not accept an emergency call from iPhone if iPhone is not activated, if iPhone is not compatible with or configured to operate on a particular cellular network, or (when applicable) if iPhone does not have a SIM card or if the SIM card is PIN-locked. In the U.S., location information (if available) is provided to emergency service providers when you dial 911. Please review your carrier’s emergency calling information to understand the limits of emergency calling over Wi-Fi. With CDMA, when an emergency call ends, iPhone enters emergency call mode for a few minutes to allow a call back from emergency services. During this time, data transmission and text messages are blocked. Exit emergency call mode (CDMA). Do one of the following: • Tap the Back button. • Press the Sleep/Wake button or the Home button. • Use the keypad to dial a non-emergency number. Chapter 5 Phone 55 Visual voicemail Visual voicemail lets you see a list of your messages and choose which one to listen to or delete, without having to wade through all of them. A badge on the Voicemail icon tells you how many unheard messages you have. The first time you tap Voicemail, you’re prompted to create a voicemail password and record your voicemail greeting. Listen to a voicemail message. Tap Voicemail, then tap a message. To listen again, select the message and tap . If visual voicemail isn’t available with your service, tap Voicemail and follow the voice prompts. Drag the playhead to skip to any point in a message. Drag the playhead to skip to any point in a message. Unheard messages Unheard messages Play/pause Play/pause Contact info Contact info Speakerphone (Audio, when a Bluetooth device is connected. Tap to choose audio output.) Speakerphone (Audio, when a Bluetooth device is connected. Tap to choose audio output.) Return the call. Return the call. Messages are saved until you delete them or your carrier erases them. Use Siri. Say something like: • “Do I have any new voicemail?” • “Play the voicemail from Emily” Delete a message. Swipe or tap the message, then tap Delete. Note:  In some areas, deleted messages may be permanently erased by your carrier. Your voice messages may also be deleted if you change your SIM card. Manage deleted messages. Tap Deleted Messages (at the end of the messages list), then: • Listen to a deleted message: Tap the message. • Undelete a message: Tap the message and tap Undelete. • Delete messages permanently: Tap Clear All. Update your greeting. Tap Voicemail, tap Greeting, tap Custom, then tap Record. Or, to use your carrier’s generic greeting, tap Default. Set an alert sound for new voicemail. Go to Settings > Sounds. Change the password. Go to Settings > Phone > Change Voicemail Password. Chapter 5 Phone 56 Contacts When viewing a contact’s card, a quick tap lets you make a phone call, create an email message, find the contact’s location, and more. See Chapter 32, Contacts, on page 147. Call forwarding, call waiting, and caller ID Set up call forwarding, call waiting, or caller ID. (GSM) Go to Settings > Phone. • Call Forwarding:  The Call Forwarding icon appears in the status bar when call forwarding is on. You must be in range of the cellular network when you set iPhone to forward calls, or calls won’t be forwarded. • Call Waiting:  If you’re on a call and call waiting is turned off, incoming calls go directly to voicemail. • Caller ID:  For FaceTime calls, your phone number is displayed even if caller ID is turned off. For CDMA accounts, contact your carrier for information about enabling and using these features. See support.apple.com/kb/HT4515. Ringtones and vibrations iPhone comes with ringtones that sound for incoming calls, Clock alarms, and the Clock timer. You can also purchase ringtones from songs in the iTunes Store. See Chapter 22, iTunes Store, on page 118. Set the default ringtone. Go to Settings > Sound > Ringtone. Assign different ringtones for the special people in your life. Go to Contacts, choose a contact, tap edit, then tap Ringtone. Turn the ringer on or off. Flip the switch on the side of iPhone. Important:  Clock alarms still sound when the Ring/Silent switch is set to silent. Turn vibrate on or off. Go to Settings > Sounds. See Sounds and silence on page 36. International calls For information about making international calls from your home area (including rates and other charges that may apply), contact your carrier. When traveling abroad, you may be able to use iPhone to make calls, send and receive text messages, get visual voicemail, and use apps that access the Internet, depending on available networks. Enable international roaming. To turn on Data Roaming and Voice Roaming (CDMA), go to Settings > Cellular. Contact your carrier for information about availability and fees. Important:  Voice, text message, and data roaming charges may apply. To avoid charges while roaming, turn off Data Roaming and Voice Roaming (CDMA). You may be able to roam on GSM networks, if you have a CDMA account, and your iPhone has a SIM card installed. While roaming on a GSM network, iPhone has access to GSM network features. Charges may apply. Contact your carrier for more information. Chapter 5 Phone 57 Set network options. Go to Settings > Cellular to: • Turn data roaming on or off • Turn cellular data on or off • Turn voice roaming on or off (CDMA) • Use GSM networks abroad (CDMA) See Usage information on page 188. Turn off cellular services. Go to Settings, turn on Airplane Mode, then tap Wi-Fi and turn it on. Incoming phone calls are sent to voicemail. To resume cellular service, turn Airplane Mode off. Make calls to your contacts and favorites while traveling abroad. (GSM) Go to Settings > Phone, then turn on Dial Assist. Dial Assist automatically adds the prefix or country code for calls to the U.S. Select a carrier network. Go to Settings > Carrier. This setting appears on GSM networks when you’re outside your carrier’s network, and other local carrier data networks are available to use for your phone calls, visual voicemail, and cellular network Internet connections. You can make calls only on carriers that have a roaming agreement with your carrier. Additional fees may apply. Roaming charges may be billed to you by the other carrier, through your carrier. Get voicemail when visual voicemail isn’t available. Dial your own number (with CDMA, add # after your number), or touch and hold “1” on the numeric keypad. Phone settings Go to Settings > Phone to: • See the phone number for your iPhone • Change the default text message replies for incoming calls • Turn call forwarding, call waiting, and caller ID on or off (GSM) • Turn TTY on or off • Change your voicemail password (GSM) • Require a PIN to unlock your SIM when you turn iPhone on (required by some carriers) Go to Settings > Sounds to: • Set ringtones and volume • Set vibration options • Set the sound for new voicemail Once you select a network, iPhone uses only that network. If the network is unavailable, “No service” appears on iPhone. 6 58 Mail Write messages Mail lets you access all of your email accounts, on the go. WARNING:  For important information about avoiding distractions that could lead to dangerous situations, see Important safety information on page 183. Change mailboxes or accounts. Change mailboxes or accounts. Search for messages. Search for messages. Compose a message. Compose a message. Delete, move, or mark multiple messages. Delete, move, or mark multiple messages. Insert a photo or video. Double-tap, then tap Insert Photo or Video. Also see Edit text on page 31. Quote some text when you reply. Tap the insertion point, then select the text you want to include. Tap , then tap Reply. You can turn off the indentation of the quoted text in Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars > Increase Quote Level. Send a message from a different account. Tap the From field to choose an account. Change a recipient from Cc to Bcc. After you enter recipients, you can drag them from one field to another or change their order. Chapter 6 Mail 59 Mark addresses outside certain domains. When you’re addressing a message to a recipient that’s not in your organization’s domain, Mail can color the recipient’s name red to alert you. Go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars > Mark Addresses, then define the domains that you don’t want marked. You can enter multiple domains separated by commas, such as “apple.com, example.org.” Use Siri. Say something like: • “New email to Jonah Schmidt” • “Email Simon and say I got the forms, thanks” Get a sneak peek Change how names are displayed in Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars > Short Name. Change how names are displayed in Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars > Short Name. See a longer preview. Go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars > Preview. You can show up to five lines. Is this message for me? Go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars, then turn on Show To/Cc Label. If the label says Cc instead of To, you were just copied. You can also use the To/Cc mailbox, which gathers all mail addressed to you. To show or hide it, swipe to the right (or tap Mailboxes), then tap Edit. Finish a message later Look at another message while you’re writing one. Swipe down on the title bar of a message you’re writing. When you’re ready to return to your message, tap its title at the bottom of the screen. If you have more than one message waiting to be finished, tap the bottom of the screen to see them all. Save a draft for later. If you’re writing a message and want to finish it later, tap Cancel, then tap Save Draft. To get it back, touch and hold Compose. With OS X Yosemite, you can also hand off unfinished messages with your Mac. See About Continuity features on page 26. Chapter 6 Mail 60 See important messages Get notified of replies to a message or thread. Tap , then tap Notify Me. While you’re writing a message, you can also tap in the Subject field. To change how notifications appear, go to Settings > Notifications > Mail > Thread Notifications. Gather important messages. Add important people to your VIP list, so all their messages appear in the VIP mailbox. Tap the sender’s name in a message, then tap Add to VIP. To change how notifications appear, go to Settings > Notifications > Mail > VIP. Flag a message so you can find it later. Tap while reading the message. To change the appearance of the flagged message indicator, go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars > Flag Style. To see the Flagged mailbox, tap Edit while viewing the Mailboxes list, then tap Flagged. Search for a message. Scroll to or tap the top of the message list to reveal the search field. Searching looks at the address fields, the subject, and the message body. To search multiple accounts at once, search from a smart mailbox, such as All Sent. Search by timeframe. Scroll to or tap the top of the messages list to reveal the search field, then type something like “February meeting” to find all messages from February with the word “meeting.” Search by message state. To find all flagged, unread messages from people in your VIP list, type “flag unread vip.” You can also search for other message attributes, such as “attachment.” Junk, be gone! Tap while you’re reading a message, then tap Move to Junk to file it in the Junk folder. If you accidentally move a message, shake iPhone immediately to undo. Use Siri. Say, for example, “Any new mail from Natalia today?” Make a favorite mailbox. Favorites appear at the top of the Mailboxes list. To add a favorite, tap Edit while viewing the Mailboxes list. Tap Add Mailbox, then select the mailboxes to add. You’ll also get push notifications for your favorite mailboxes. Show draft messages from all of your accounts. While viewing the Mailboxes list, tap Edit, tap Add Mailbox, then turn on the All Drafts mailbox. Attachments Save a photo or video to Photos. Touch and hold the photo or video until a menu appears, then tap Save Image. Open an attachment with another app. Touch and hold the attachment until a menu appears, then tap the app you want to use to open the attachment. Some attachments automatically show a banner with buttons you can use to open other apps. See messages with attachments. The Attachments mailbox shows messages with attachments from all accounts. To add it, tap Edit while viewing the Mailboxes list. Chapter 6 Mail 61 Work with multiple messages Delete, move, or mark multiple messages. While viewing a list of messages, tap Edit. Select some messages, then choose an action. If you make a mistake, shake iPhone immediately to undo. Manage a message with a swipe. While viewing a list of messages, swipe a message to the left to reveal a menu of actions. Swipe all the way to the left to select the first action. You can also swipe a message to the right to reveal another action. Choose the actions you want to appear in the menus at Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars > Swipe Options. Organize your mail with mailboxes. Tap Edit in the mailboxes list to create a new one, or rename or delete one. (Some built-in mailboxes can’t be changed.) There are several smart mailboxes, such as Unread, that show messages from all your accounts. Tap the ones you want to use. Recover a deleted message. Go to the account’s Trash mailbox, open the message, then tap and move the message. Or, if you just deleted it, shake iPhone to undo. To see deleted messages across all your accounts, add the Trash mailbox. To add it, tap Edit in the mailboxes list, then select it in the list. Archive instead of delete. Instead of deleting messages, you can archive them so they’re still around if you need them. Select Archive Mailbox in Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars > account name > Account > Advanced. To delete a message instead of archiving it, touch and hold , then tap Delete. Stash your trash. You can set how long deleted messages stay in the Trash mailbox. Go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars > account name > Account > Advanced. See and save addresses See who received a message. While viewing the message, tap More in the To field. Add someone to Contacts or make them a VIP. Tap the person’s name or email address, then tap Add to VIP. You can also add their address to a new or existing contact. Mark person as a VIP. Mark person as a VIP. Print messages Print a message. Tap , then tap Print. Print an attachment or picture. Tap to view it, tap , then choose Print. See AirPrint on page 41. Chapter 6 Mail 62 Mail settings Go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars, where you can: • Create a different mail signature for each account • Add mail accounts • Set Out of Office replies for Exchange mail accounts • Bcc yourself on every message you send • Turn on Organize by Thread to group related messages together • Turn off confirmation for deleting a message • Turn off Push delivery of new messages, to save on battery power • Temporarily turn off an account 7 63 Safari Safari at a glance Use Safari on iPhone to browse the web, use Reading List to collect webpages to read later, and add page icons to the Home screen for quick access. Use iCloud to see pages you have open on other devices, and to keep your bookmarks, history, and reading list up to date on your other devices. Share, print, and more. Share, print, and more. View open tabs or open a new tab. View open tabs or open a new tab. Enter a web address or search item, or get quick access to your Favorites. Enter a web address or search item, or get quick access to your Favorites. To zoom, double tap an item or pinch. To zoom, double tap an item or pinch. See your bookmarks, reading list, and shared links. See your bookmarks, reading list, and shared links. Revisit recent pages. Revisit recent pages. Chapter 7 Safari 64 Search the web Search the web. Enter a URL or search term in the search field at the top of the page, then tap a search suggestion, or tap Go on the keyboard to search for exactly what you typed. If you don’t want to see suggested search terms, go to Settings > Safari, then (under Search) turn off Search Engine Suggestions. Enter what you’re searching for, then tap Go. Enter what you’re searching for, then tap Go. Or tap a suggestion. Or tap a suggestion. View selected site. View selected site. Quickly search a site you’ve visited before. Enter the name of the site, followed by your search term. For example, enter “wiki einstein” to search Wikipedia for “einstein.” Go to Settings > Safari > Quick Website Search to turn this feature on or off. Have your favorites top the list. Select them in Settings > Safari > Favorites. Search the page. Scroll to the bottom of the suggested results list, then tap the entry under On This Page. Tap to see the next occurrence on the page. Choose your search tool. Go to Settings > Safari > Search Engine. Browse the web Look before you leap. To see the URL of a link before you go there, touch and hold the link. Touch and hold a link to see these options. Touch and hold a link to see these options. Open a link in a new tab. Touch and hold the link, then tap Open in New Tab. If you’d rather open new pages in the background, go to Settings > Safari > Open Links. Browse open tabs. Tap . To close a tab, tap in the upper-left corner, or swipe the tab to the left. View tabs open on your other devices. If you turn on Safari in Settings > iCloud, you can view tabs that you have open on your other devices. Tap , then scroll to the list at the bottom of the page. Chapter 7 Safari 65 Note:  If you close the tab on iPhone, the tab also closes on your other devices. Scroll to the bottom to see tabs open on other devices. Scroll to the bottom to see tabs open on other devices. View recently closed tabs. Touch and hold . Get back to the top. Tap the top edge of the screen to quickly return to the top of a long page. See more. Turn iPhone to landscape orientation. See the latest. Tap next to the address in the search field to update the page. See a tab’s history. Touch and hold or . View the desktop version of a site. If you want to see the full desktop version of a site instead of the mobile version, tap the search field, pull down the display of your favorites, then tap Request Desktop Site. Keep bookmarks Bookmark the current page. Tap (or touch and hold ), then tap Add Bookmark. View your bookmarks. Tap , then tap . Get organized. To create a folder for bookmarks, tap , then tap Edit. Add a webpage to your favorites. Open the page, tap the search field, drag down, then tap Add to Favorites. Quickly see your favorite and frequently visited sites. Tap the search field to see your favorites. Scroll down to see frequently visited sites. Edit your favorites. Tap the search field, then touch and hold a page or folder until the icon gets larger. Then you can delete the item, or tap edit to rename or move it. Choose which favorites appear when you tap the search field. Go to Settings > Safari > Favorites. Bookmarks bar on your Mac? Go to Settings > iCloud, then turn on Safari if you want items from the bookmarks bar in Safari on your Mac to appear in Favorites on iPhone. Save an icon for the current page on your Home screen. Tap , then tap Add to Home Screen. The icon appears only on the device where you create it. Chapter 7 Safari 66 Save a reading list for later Save interesting items in your reading list so you can revisit them later. You can read pages in your reading list even when you’re not connected to the Internet. Add the current page to your reading list. Tap , then tap Add to Reading List. Add a linked page without opening it. Touch and hold the link, then tap Add to Reading List. View your reading list. Tap , then tap . Delete something from your reading list. Swipe left on the item in your reading list. Don’t want to use cellular data to download reading list items? Go to Settings > Safari, then turn off Use Cellular Data. Shared links and subscriptions You can view links shared from social media, such as Twitter, or feeds from your subscriptions. View shared links and subscriptions. Tap , then tap . Subscribe to a feed. Go to a site that provides a subscription feed, tap , tap Add to Shared Links, then confirm by tapping Add to Shared Links. Delete a subscription. Tap , tap , tap Subscriptions below the list of your shared links, then tap next to the subscription you want to delete. Spread the news. Tap . Tap to share with someone nearby using AirDrop. Tap to share with someone nearby using AirDrop. Other sharing options Other sharing options Chapter 7 Safari 67 Fill in forms Whether you’re logging in to a website, signing up for a service, or making a purchase, you can fill in a web form using the onscreen keyboard or have Safari fill it in for you using AutoFill. Tired of always having to log in? When you’re asked if you want to save the password for the site, tap Yes. The next time you visit, your user name and password will be filled in for you. Fill in a form. Tap any field to bring up the onscreen keyboard. Tap or above the keyboard to move from field to field. Fill it in automatically. Go to Settings > Safari > Passwords & AutoFill, then turn on Use Contact Info. Then, tap AutoFill above the onscreen keyboard when you’re filling in the form. Not all websites support AutoFill. Add a credit card for purchases. Go to Settings > Safari > Passwords & AutoFill > Saved Credit Cards > Add Credit Card. To enter the information without typing it, tap Use Camera, then hold iPhone above the card so that the image of the card fits in the frame. You can also add a credit card by accepting when Safari offers to save it when you make an online purchase. See iCloud Keychain on page 45. Use your credit card information. Look for the AutoFill Credit Card button above the onscreen keyboard whenever you’re in a credit card field. Your card’s security code isn’t stored, so you still enter that yourself. If you’re not using a passcode for iPhone, you might want to start; see Use a passcode with data protection on page 44. Submit a form. Tap Go, Search, or the link on the webpage. Avoid clutter with Reader Use Safari Reader to focus on a page’s primary content. Tap to view the page in Reader. Tap to view the page in Reader. Focus on content. Tap at the left end of the address field. If you don’t see the icon, Reader isn’t available for the page you’re looking at. Share just the good stuff. To share just the article text and a link to it, tap while viewing the page in Reader. Return to the full page. Tap the Reader icon in the address field again. Privacy and security You can adjust Safari settings to keep your browsing activities to yourself and protect yourself from malicious websites. Want to keep a low profile? Go to Settings > Safari, then turn on Do Not Track. Safari will ask websites you visit not to track your browsing, but beware—a website can choose not to honor the request. Control cookies. Go to Settings > Safari > Block Cookies. To remove cookies already on iPhone, go to Settings > Safari > Clear History and Website Data. Chapter 7 Safari 68 Let Safari create secure passwords and store them for you. Tap the password field when creating a new account, and Safari will offer to create a password for you. Erase your browsing history and data from iPhone. Go to Settings > Safari > Clear History and Website Data. Visit sites without making history. Tap , then tap Private. Sites you visit won’t appear in iCloud Tabs or be added to History on your iPhone. To put away your private sites, tap , then tap Private again. You can close the pages, or keep them for viewing the next time you use Private Browsing Mode. Watch for suspicious websites. Go to Settings > Safari, then turn on Fraudulent Website Warning. Safari settings Go to Settings > Safari, where you can: • Choose your search engine and configure search results • Provide AutoFill information • Choose which favorites are displayed when you search • Have links open in a new page or in the background • Block pop-ups • Tighten privacy and security • Clear your history and website data • Choose whether to use cellular data for Reading List items • Configure advanced settings and more 8 69 Music Music at a glance Use Music to enjoy music stored on iPhone as well as music streamed over the Internet, including the live worldwide station Beats 1. With an optional Apple Music membership, listen to millions of tracks and connect with your favorite artists. Note:  You need a Wi-Fi or cellular connection to stream Apple Music, Radio, and Connect content. In some cases an Apple ID is also required. Services and features are not available in all areas, and features may vary by area. Additional charges may apply when using a cellular connection. WARNING:  For important information about avoiding hearing loss, see Important safety information on page 183. Access music Play music and other audio content on iPhone in the following ways: • Become an Apple Music member:  With a membership and Wi-Fi or cellular connection, stream as much music as you like from the Apple Music catalog and make songs, albums, and playlists available for offline play. See Apple Music below. Note:  If you end your Apple Music membership, you can no longer stream Apple Music tracks or play Apple Music tracks saved for offline play. • Listen to Beats 1:  Ad-supported radio is available in the U.S. and Australia. Everyone around the world can tune in to Beats 1 for free. • Purchase music from the iTunes Store:  Go to iTunes Store. See iTunes Store at a glance on page 118. • iCloud Music Library:  iCloud Music Library includes all your music from Apple Music, your iTunes purchases, and songs uploaded from your computer, along with your iTunes Match library. Find this music in My Music. See My Music on page 75. • Family Sharing:  Purchase an Apple Music Family Membership and everyone in your Family Sharing group can enjoy Apple Music. If you aren’t an Apple Music member, you can still listen to songs purchased by other members of your family who have chosen to share their purchases. Go to iTunes Store, tap More, tap Purchased, then choose a family member. See Family Sharing on page 38. • Sync content with iTunes on your computer:  See Sync with iTunes on page 20. Chapter 8 Music 70 Apple Music As an Apple Music member you can listen to dozens of hand-curated ad-free radio stations and create your own stations, all with unlimited skips. You can also access millions of songs for streaming and offline play, receive recommendations from music experts and artists, share playlists among friends, and enjoy content posted directly by artists. Just like nonmembers, you can also listen to music stored on iPhone, access iTunes purchases available through Family Sharing, stream previous iTunes purchases to iPhone, and listen to Beats 1 radio. (You can also play tracks identified by iTunes Match if you have an iTunes Match subscription.) You can join Apple Music when you first open Music. Or go to Settings > Music > Join Apple Music. Note:  You can play Apple Music and Radio tracks on only one device at a time unless you have an Apple Music Family Membership, which lets you play music on multiple devices. Get personalized recommendations Apple Music can suggest songs you might enjoy, with a little guidance from you about your genre and artist preferences. Select your favorite genres and artists. When you first tap For You, you are prompted to tell Music about your preferences. Tap the genres you like. (Double-tap those you love, and touch and hold the genres you don’t care for.) Tap Next, then do the same with the artist names that appear. Apple Music uses these preferences when recommending music to you. Update genre and artist preferences. Tap , then tap Choose Artists for You. For You Discover expertly selected playlists and albums based on your tastes. Play recommended playlists or albums. Play recommended playlists or albums. Tap to view the contents of a playlist or album. Tap to view the contents of a playlist or album. Miniplayer Miniplayer View music tweaked to your taste. Tap to play an album or playlist. Tap an album or a playlist’s album art to view its contents. If you find a recommendation you don’t care for, tap and hold it and tell Music that it’s not to your taste. To get more recommendations, pull down. Tell Music what you love. Tap when viewing an album’s contents or an artist’s screen, or from Now Playing to help improve future recommendations. Chapter 8 Music 71 Reorder a For You playlist. Play the playlist, tap the Miniplayer to show the Now Playing screen, then tap . Drag to rearrange the song order. Add For You playlists. Tap , then tap Add to My Music. The playlist remains in your library and updates automatically if the playlist changes. (Go to Settings > Music, then turn on iCloud Music Library to enable this feature.) Do more with your music. When viewing an album’s contents tap to add music to the Up Next queue, create a station based on the currently selected music, or share music with a friend. Search for and add music Find your music. Tap , tap My Music, then enter a song, album, playlist, artist, compilation, or genre. Results include music on iPhone as well as music in your iCloud Music Library. Tap a result to play it. Search Apple Music. Tap , tap Apple Music, then select a trending search or enter a song, album, playlist, artist, curator, music video, activity, radio station, or genre. Tap a result to play it. Add Apple Music. To add music, tap next to any result, then tap Add to My Music. To stream an added song to iPhone, tap it within My Music. To save music to iPhone so that you can play it when you don’t have a Wi-Fi or cellular connection, tap Make Available Offline. To see the progress of tracks being saved to iPhone, and to access options for pausing tracks or removing them from the Downloads sheet, tap the Downloads bar. Note:  Settings > Music > iCloud Music Library must be turned on to add and save Apple Music to your library. Play music Up Next Up Next Tap to hide Now Playing. Tap to hide Now Playing. Volume Volume Playhead Playhead Control playback. Tap a song to play it and show the Miniplayer. Tap the Miniplayer to show the Now Playing screen, where you can do the following: • Tap to skip to the next song. • Tap to return to the song’s beginning. • Double-tap to play an album or playlist’s previous song. Chapter 8 Music 72 Skip to any point in a song. Drag the playhead. Decrease the scrubbing speed by sliding your finger down the screen. Share music. Tap , then choose a sharing option. Shuffle. Tap to play your songs in random order. Repeat. Tap to repeat an album or playlist. Double-tap to repeat a single song. More. Tap for additional options. See what’s up next. Tap . Tap a song to play it and the songs that follow. Drag to reorder the list. Stream music to an AirPlay-enabled device. Tap in Now Playing, then choose a device. See AirPlay on page 41. New Music experts pick today’s best music. Tap New to browse their recommendations. Play featured music. Play featured music. Play other songs and albums recommended by Apple’s experts. Play other songs and albums recommended by Apple’s experts. Browse expert recommendations. Tap New, then tap a featured album, song, artist, or playlist. Browse your favorite genres. Tap All Genres, choose a genre, then tap a featured album, song, artist, or playlist to hear music handpicked by music experts. Fit the music to the mood. Tap Activities to play music that fits with what you’re doing (or how you’re feeling). Get expert advice. Tap Apple Editors or Curators to discover music recommended by music experts. Tap Follow to keep up with your favorite experts. See what’s hot. Tap Top Charts to view top songs, top albums, and other popular content. Chapter 8 Music 73 Radio Radio offers the always-on Beats 1, featuring top DJs playing today’s best music. The featured stations created by experts provide a great way to explore and enjoy new music in a variety of genres. You can also create your own custom stations, based on your pick of artist, song, or genre. Tap to play the station. Tap to play the station. Listen to live radio. Tap Listen Now to tune in to Beats 1. Listen to your favorite music genre. Tap a station or, if you already listened to a station, tap a recently played station. Create a station. When browsing an artist, song, or genre, tap , then tap Start Station. Connect Even if you’re not an Apple Music member you can follow your favorite artists, learn more about them, read their recent posts, and comment on what you find. View posts from your favorite artists. View posts from your favorite artists. Follow an artist. Music automatically follows the artists found in your music library. To follow other artists, navigate to an artist’s page, then tap Follow. To stop following an artist, go to the artist’s page, then tap Unfollow. Or tap , tap Following, then tap Unfollow next to the artist’s name. Chapter 8 Music 74 View an artist’s content. Tap Connect to view the content shared by artists you follow. You can also navigate to any artist’s page to see what that artist is sharing. Make a comment. Tap to write a comment. Create a nickname the first time you make a comment. Share an artist post. Tap , then choose a sharing option. Playlists Create playlists to organize your music. If you’re an Apple Music member, tap My Music, tap Playlists, then tap New. Enter a title, then tap Add Songs. Select songs and albums to add to the playlist. (If you chose to hide the Apple Music features, you can tap Playlists to create a new playlist.) To customize your playlist’s artwork, tap and take a photo or choose an image from your photo library. View particular playlists. In addition to playlists you create, Playlists includes playlists you added from Apple Music, as well as those shared with you. To view just the playlists you created, tap All Playlists, then tap My Playlists. You can also choose to see just Apple Music Playlists or only the playlists saved on iPhone. Create a Genius playlist. In My Music tap next to a song, then tap Create Genius Playlist. Edit a playlist you created on iPhone. Select the playlist, then tap Edit. • Add more songs:  Tap Add Songs. • Delete a song:  Tap , then tap Delete. Deleting a song from a playlist doesn’t delete it from iPhone. • Change the song order:  Drag . New and changed playlists are added to iCloud Music Library and appear on all your devices if you’re an Apple Music member or iTunes Match subscriber. If you’re not a member or subscriber, they’re copied to your music library the next time you sync iPhone with your computer. Delete a playlist you created on iPhone. Tap next to the playlist, then tap Delete. Create a new playlist. Create a new playlist. Tap to reorder or delete playlists. Tap to reorder or delete playlists. Chapter 8 Music 75 iTunes Match If you have an iTunes Match subscription and an Apple Music membership, your iTunes Match library will be accessible in iCloud Music Library. Subscribe to iTunes Match. Go to Settings > Music > Subscribe to iTunes Match. Turn on iTunes Match. Go to Settings > iTunes & App Store. Sign in if you haven’t already. My Music My Music includes any Apple Music content you added, music and music videos synced to iPhone, iTunes purchases, and the music you make available through iTunes Match. Tap to play a recently added album or song. Tap to play a recently added album or song. Choose a sorting method. Choose a sorting method. Tap to view an album’s contents. Tap to view an album’s contents. Browse and play your music. Tap the sorting menu to display your music by Artists, Albums, Songs, and more. Tap the album art to play a song or album. Tap the Miniplayer to display the Now Playing screen. Save music to iPhone. Tap next to an album or track, then tap Make Available Offline. View only music stored on iPhone. Tap My Music, tap the sorting menu, then turn on Music Available Offline. Remove a song stored on iPhone. Tap next to the song, then tap Remove Download. The song is deleted from iPhone, but not from iCloud Music Library. To manage music storage on iPhone, go to Settings > General > Usage > Manage Storage > Music. Add music to a playlist. Tap next to an album or track, tap Add to a Playlist, then choose a playlist. Get audio controls from the Lock screen or when using another app. Swipe up from the bottom edge of the screen to open Control Center. See Control Center on page 35. Chapter 8 Music 76 Siri and Voice Control You can use Siri or Voice Control to control music playback. See Make requests on page 48 and Voice Control on page 33. Siri can also help you find music in the iTunes Store. See “Find it with Siri” in Browse or search on page 118. Use Voice Control. Press and hold the Home button. Voice Control only works when Siri is disabled. • Play or pause music:  Say “play music.” To pause, say “pause,” “pause music,” or “stop.” You can also say “next song” or “previous song.” • Play an album, artist, or playlist: Say “play album,” “play artist,” or “play playlist” followed by the name of the artist, album, or playlist you wish to play. • Find out more about the current song: Say “what’s playing,” “who sings this song,” or “who is this song by.” Use Siri. Press and hold the Home button. In addition to the commands available through Voice Control, Siri supports the following commands: • Play an album, artist, song, playlist, or Radio station:  Say “play” followed by the name of the artist, album, song, playlist, or station that you want to play. If Siri doesn’t find what you asked for, be more specific. For example, say “play the radio station ‘Pure Pop’” rather than saying “play ‘Pure Pop.’” • Play music in random order: Say “shuffle play” followed by the name of the artist or album you’d like to play in random order. • Play similar music:  While music is playing, say “play more songs like this one” or“create a radio station based on this song.” • Browse Apple Music:  You can play any Apple Music track by title (“play ‘Happy’ by Pharrell Williams”), by artist (“play Echosmith”), by movie (“play that song from Into the Woods”), by chart (“play the top song from March 1981”), and then change versions (“play the live version of it”). • Add music from Apple Music to your collection (Apple Music membership required):  Say, for example, “add ‘Lifted Up’ by Passion Pit to My Music” or, while playing something, say “add this to my collection.” Music settings Go to Settings > Music to set options for Music. The options you see depend on your membership status. • Apple Music: If you’re not currently an Apple Music member you can choose to show Apple Music features as well as become a member. • Connect: Show or hide Connect and show artist posts and shares in Now Playing and on the Lock screen. • Sort Albums: You can choose to sort by artist or title. • iCloud Music Library: With this option off, all Apple Music content is removed from iPhone. Music you purchased or synced, and music identified by iTunes Match that you added for offline play remains. • Equalization (EQ): EQ settings generally apply only to music played from the Music app, but they affect all sound output, including the headset jack, AirPlay, and Bluetooth audio connections. Chapter 8 Music 77 Note:  The Late Night setting compresses the dynamic range of the audio output, reducing the volume of loud passages and increasing the volume of quiet passages. You might want to use this setting when listening to music on an airplane or in some other noisy environment. (The Late Night setting applies to all audio output—video as well as music.) • Volume Limit: In some European Union (EU) countries, iPhone may indicate when you’re setting the volume above the EU-recommended level for hearing safety. To increase the volume beyond this level, you may need to briefly release the volume control. To limit the maximum headset volume to this level, go to Settings > Music > Volume Limit, then turn on EU Volume Limit. Note:  To prevent changes to the volume limit, go to Settings > General > Restrictions > Volume Limit, then tap Don’t Allow Changes. • Sound Check: Sound Check normalizes the volume level of your audio content. 9 78 Messages SMS, MMS, and iMessage Messages lets you exchange text messages with other SMS and MMS devices using your cellular connection, and with other iOS devices and Mac computers using iMessage. iMessage is an Apple feature that lets you send messages over Wi-Fi (or cellular connections) to others using iOS 5 or later, or OS X Mountain Lion or later. Messages you send using iMessage don’t count against your text messaging plan with your carrier. Messages can include photos, videos, and other info. You can see when other people are typing, and let them know when you’ve read their messages. If you’re signed in to iMessage using the same Apple ID on other iOS devices or a Mac (OS X Mavericks or later), you can start a conversation on one device and continue it on another. For security, messages you send with iMessage are encrypted before they’re sent. With Continuity, you can also send and receive SMS and MMS messages in the Messages app on other iOS devices (with iOS 8) or a Mac (with OS X Yosemite), if they are signed in to iMessage with the same Apple ID as your iPhone. See About Continuity features on page 26. Sign in to iMessage on an iOS device. Go to Settings > Messages, then turn on iMessage. Sign in to iMessage on a Mac. On your Mac, open Messages, choose Messages > Preferences, click Accounts, then select iMessage in the Accounts list. Enter your Apple ID and password, then click Sign In. WARNING:  For important information about avoiding distractions while driving, see Important safety information on page 183. Chapter 9 Messages 79 Send and receive messages Send a photo or video. Send a photo or video. Add your voice to the conversation. Add your voice to the conversation. Get info, make a voice or FaceTime call, share your location, or mute notifications. Get info, make a voice or FaceTime call, share your location, or mute notifications. Blue indicates an iMessage conversation. Blue indicates an iMessage conversation. Start a conversation. Tap , then enter a phone number or email address, or tap , then choose a contact. You can also start a conversation by tapping a phone number in Contacts, Calendar, or Safari, or from a recent or favorite contact in the multitasking screen. Note:  An alert appears if a message can’t be sent. Tap the alert in a conversation to try sending the message again. Use Siri. Say something like: • “Send a message to Emily saying how about tomorrow” • “Read my messages” • “Read my last message from Bob” • “Reply that’s great news” Resume a conversation. Tap the conversation in the Messages list. Use picture characters. Go to Settings > General > Keyboard > Keyboards > Add New Keyboard, then tap Emoji to make that keyboard available. When you type a message, tap to change to the Emoji keyboard. See Special input methods on page 178. Tap to Talk. Touch and hold to record an audio message, then swipe up to send it. To delete it, swipe left. To save space, Tap to Talk audio messages that you receive are deleted automatically two minutes after you listen to them, unless you tap Keep. To keep them automatically, go to Settings > Messages > Expire (under Audio Messages), then tap Never. Raise iPhone to listen or reply to an audio message. Raise iPhone to your ear, as if you were talking on the phone, to play incoming audio messages automatically. Raise iPhone to your ear again to reply to an audio message. Turn this feature on or off at Settings > Messages, under Audio Messages. See what time a message was sent or received. Drag any bubble to the left. Chapter 9 Messages 80 See a person’s contact info. In a conversation, tap Details, then tap . Tap the info items to perform actions, such as making a voice or FaceTime call. Send messages to a group (iMessage and MMS). Tap , then enter multiple recipients. With MMS, group messaging must also be turned on in Settings > Messages, and replies are sent only to you—they aren’t copied to the other people in the group. Give a group a name. While viewing the conversation, tap Details, drag down, then enter the name in the Subject line. Add someone to a group. Tap the To field, then tap Add Contact. Leave a group. Tap Details, then tap Leave this Conversation. Keep it quiet. Tap Details, then turn on Do Not Disturb to mute notifications for the conversation. Block unwanted messages. On a contact card, tap Block this Caller. You can see someone’s contact card while viewing a message by tapping Details, then tapping . You can also block callers in Settings > Messages > Blocked. You will not receive voice calls, FaceTime calls, or text messages from blocked callers. For more information about blocking calls, see support.apple.com/kb/HT5845. Manage conversations Conversations are saved in the Messages list. A blue dot indicates unread messages. Tap a conversation to view or continue it. View the Messages list. From a conversation, tap Messages or swipe to the right. With iPhone 6 Plus, you can also rotate iPhone to landscape orientation to see both the Messages list and the selected conversation. Forward a message. Touch and hold a message or attachment, tap More, select additional items if desired, then tap . Delete a message or attachment. Touch and hold a message or attachment, tap More, select additional items if desired, then tap . Delete a conversation. In the Messages list, swipe the conversation to the left, then tap Delete. Search conversations. In the Messages list, tap the top of the screen to display the search field, then enter the text you’re looking for. You can also search conversations from the Home screen. See Spotlight Search on page 34. Chapter 9 Messages 81 Share photos, videos, your location, and more With iMessage or MMS, you can send and receive photos and videos, and send locations, contact info, and voice memos. The size limit of attachments is determined by your service provider— iPhone may compress photo and video attachments when necessary. Quickly take and send a photo or video. Touch and hold . Then slide to or to take a photo or video. Photos are sent immediately. Tap to preview your video. To send your Video Message, tap . To save space, Video Messages that you receive are deleted automatically two minutes after you view them, unless you tap Keep. To keep them automatically, go to Settings > Messages > Expire (under Video Messages), then tap Never. Send photos and videos from your Photos library. Tap . Recent shots are right there; tap Photo Library for older ones. Select the items you want to send. View attachments. While viewing a conversation, tap Details. Attachments are shown in reverse chronological order at the bottom of the screen. Tap an attachment to see it in full screen. In fullscreen mode, tap to view the attachments as a list. Send your current location. Tap Details, then tap Send My Current Location to send a map that shows where you are. Share your location. Tap Details, then tap Share My Location and specify the length of time. The person you’re texting can see your location by tapping Details. To turn Share My Location on or off, or to select the device that determines your location, go to Settings > iCloud > Share My Location (under Advanced). Send items from another app. In the other app, tap Share or , then tap Message. Share, save, or print an attachment. Tap the attachment, then tap . Copy a photo or video. Touch and hold the attachment, then tap Copy. Chapter 9 Messages 82 Messages settings Go to Settings > Messages, where you can: • Turn iMessage on or off • Notify others when you’ve read their messages • Specify phone numbers, Apple IDs, and email addresses to use with Messages • Set SMS and MMS options • Show the Subject field • Block unwanted messages • Set how long to keep messages • Filter unknown senders • Manage the expiration of audio messages and video messages created within Messages (audio or video attachments created outside of Messages are kept until you delete them manually) Manage notifications for messages. See Do Not Disturb on page 37. Set the alert sound for incoming text messages. See Sounds and silence on page 36. 10 83 Calendar Calendar at a glance Change calendars or accounts. Change calendars or accounts. View invitations. View invitations. View list of events. View list of events. Add an event. Tap , then fill in the event details. If you add a location and choose Alert > Time to leave, Calendar reminds you of the event based on the current travel time to get there. Use Siri. Say, for example, “Set up a meeting with Barry at 9.” Search for events. Tap , then enter text in the search field. The titles, invitees, locations, and notes for the calendars you’re viewing are searched. View a weekly calendar. Rotate iPhone sideways. Change your view. Tap a year, month, or day to zoom in or out on your calendar. In week or day view, pinch to zoom in or out. View a list of events. In month view, tap to see a day’s events. In day view, tap . Use Siri. Say, for example, “What’s on my calendar for Friday?” Change the color of a calendar. Tap Calendars, tap next to the calendar, then choose a color from the list. For some calendar accounts, such as Google, the color is set by the server. Adjust an event. Touch and hold the event, then drag it to a new time, or adjust the grab points. Use Siri. Say, for example, “Reschedule my appointment with Barry to next Monday at 9 a.m.” Chapter 10 Calendar 84 Invitations iCloud, Microsoft Exchange, and some CalDAV servers let you send and receive meeting invitations. Invite others to an event. Tap an event, tap Edit, then tap Invitees. Type names, or tap to pick people from Contacts. If you don’t want to be notified when someone declines a meeting, go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendar > Show Invitee Declines. RSVP. Tap an event you’ve been invited to, or tap Inbox and tap an invitation. If you add comments (which may not be available for all calendars), your comments can be seen by the organizer but not by other attendees. To see events you declined, tap Calendars, then turn on Show Declined Events. Schedule a meeting without blocking your schedule. Tap the event, tap Availability, then tap “free.” Or if it’s an event you created, tap “Show As,” then tap “free.” The event stays on your calendar, but it doesn’t appear as busy to others who send you invitations. Quickly send an email to attendees. Tap the event, tap Invitees, then tap . Use multiple calendars Turn on Facebook Events in Settings > Facebook. Turn on Facebook Events in Settings > Facebook. Select which calendars to view. Select which calendars to view. Turn on iCloud, Google, Exchange, or Yahoo! calendars. Go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars, tap an account, then turn on Calendar. Subscribe to a calendar. Go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars, then tap Add Account. Tap Other, then tap Add Subscribed Calendar. Enter the server and filename of the .ics file to subscribe to. You can also subscribe to an iCalendar (.ics) calendar published on the web, by tapping a link to the calendar. Add a CalDAV account. Go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars, tap Add Account, then tap Other. Under Calendars, tap Add CalDAV Account. View the Birthdays calendar. Tap Calendars, then tap Birthdays to include birthdays from Contacts with your events. If you set up a Facebook account, you can also include your Facebook friends’ birthdays. View the Holidays calendar. Tap Calendars, then tap Holidays to include national holidays with your events. See multiple calendars at once. Tap Calendars, then select the calendars you want to view. Move an event to another calendar. Tap the event, tap Edit, tap Calendars, then select a calendar to move it to. Chapter 10 Calendar 85 Share iCloud calendars With Family Sharing, a calendar shared with all the members of your family is created automatically. See Family Sharing on page 38. You can also share an iCloud calendar with other iCloud users. When you share a calendar, others can see it, and you can let them add or change events. You can also share a read-only version that anyone can view. Create an iCloud calendar. Tap Calendars, tap Edit, then tap Add Calendar in the iCloud section. Share an iCloud calendar. Tap Calendars, tap Edit, then tap the iCloud calendar you want to share. Tap Add Person, then enter a name, or tap to browse your Contacts. Those you invite receive an email invitation to join the calendar, but they need an iCloud account to accept. Change a person’s access to a shared calendar. Tap Calendars, tap Edit, tap the shared calendar, then tap the person. You can turn off his or her ability to edit the calendar, resend the invitation to join the calendar, or stop sharing the calendar with that person. Turn off notifications for shared calendars. When someone modifies a shared calendar, you’re notified of the change. To turn off notifications for shared calendars, go to Settings > Notifications > Calendar > Shared Calendar Changes. Share a read-only calendar with anyone. Tap Calendars, tap Edit, then tap the iCloud calendar you want to share. Turn on Public Calendar, then tap Share Link to copy or send the URL for your calendar. Anyone can use the URL to subscribe to the calendar using a compatible app, such as Calendar for OS X. Calendar settings Several settings in Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars affect Calendar and your calendar accounts. These include: • Syncing of past events (future events are always synced) • Alert tone played for new meeting invitations • Default calendar for new events • Default time for alerts • Time zone support, to show dates and times using a different time zone • Which day starts the week • Display of Chinese, Hebrew, or Islamic dates 11 86 Photos View photos and videos The Photos app lets you view the photos and videos: • Taken with Camera on iPhone • Stored in iCloud (see iCloud Photo Library on page 88) • Shared from others (see iCloud Photo Sharing on page 89) • Synced from your computer (see Sync with iTunes on page 20) • Saved from an email, text message, webpage, or screenshot Tap to view full screen. Tap to view full screen. The Photos app includes tabs for Photos, Shared, and Albums. • Tap Photos to see all your photos and videos, organized by Years, Collections, and Moments. To quickly browse the photos in a collection or year, touch and hold for a moment, then drag. • Tap Shared to see photos and videos you shared with others or that others shared with you. See iCloud Photo Sharing on page 89. • Tap Albums to see how photos and videos are organized into albums on your iPhone. See Organize photos and videos, next. View all your photos and videos. By default, Photos displays a representative subset of your photos when you view by year or by collection. To see all your photos and videos, go to Settings > Photos & Camera, then turn off Summarize Photos. Chapter 11 Photos 87 View by location. While viewing by year or by collection, tap . Photos and videos that include location information appear on a map, showing where they were taken. While viewing a photo or video, tap to show and hide the controls. Swipe left or right to go forward or backward. Search photos. From Albums or Photos, tap to search by date (month and year), or place (city and state). Search also keeps your Recent Searches on hand and gives you a list of suggested searches. Zoom in or out. Double-tap, or pinch a photo. When you zoom in, you can drag to see other parts of the photo. Play a video. Tap . To toggle between full screen and fit-to-screen, double-tap the screen. Play a slideshow. While viewing a photo, tap , then tap Slideshow. Select options, then tap Start Slideshow. To stop the slideshow, tap the screen. To set other slideshow options, go to Settings > Photos & Camera. To stream a slideshow or video to a TV, see AirPlay on page 41. Organize photos and videos The Album tab includes albums you create yourself and some albums that are created for you, depending on how you use Photos. For example, videos are automatically added to the Videos album and you see a My Photo Stream album if you use that feature (see My Photo Stream, next). All your photos in iCloud are in the All Photos album if you use iCloud Photo Library (see iCloud Photo Library on page 88). If you don’t use iCloud Photo Library, you see the Camera Roll album instead, which includes photos and videos you took with iPhone and from other sources. Note:  If you use iCloud Photo Library, albums are stored in iCloud and are up to date and accessible on any iOS 8.1 or later device, Mac with OS X Yosemite v10.10.3 or later, and on iCloud.com using the same Apple ID. See iCloud Photo Library on page 88. Create a new album. Tap Albums, tap , enter a name, then tap Save. Select photos and videos to add to the album, then tap Done. Add items to an existing album. While viewing thumbnails, tap Select, select items, tap Add To, then select the album. Manage albums. While viewing your album list, tap Edit. • Rename an album:  Select the album, then enter a new name. • Rearrange albums:  Drag . • Delete an album:  Tap . With iCloud Photo Library, you can manage all your albums from any iOS 8.1 or later device set up with iCloud Photo Library. Mark your favorites. While viewing a photo or video, tap to automatically add it to the Favorites album. A photo or video can be part of another album as well as Favorites. Hide photos you want to keep but not show. Touch and hold a photo, then choose Hide. The photo is moved to the Hidden album. Touch and hold a hidden photo to Unhide it. Remove a photo or video from an album. Tap the photo or video, tap , then tap Delete Photo. The photo or video is removed from the album and from the Photos tab. Chapter 11 Photos 88 Delete a photo or video from Photos. Tap the Photos tab, tap the photo or video, tap , then tap Delete Photo or Delete Video. Deleted photos and videos are kept in the Recently Deleted album on iPhone, with a badge showing the remaining days until the item is permanently removed from iPhone. To delete the photo or video permanently before the days expire, tap the item, tap Delete, then tap Delete Photo or Delete Video. If you use iCloud Photo Library, deleted photos and videos are permanently removed from all your devices using iCloud Photo Library with the same Apple ID. Recover a deleted photo or video. In the Recently Deleted album, tap the photo or video, tap Recover, then tap Recover Photo or Recover Video to move the item to the Camera Roll or, if you use iCloud Photo Library, the All Photos album. iCloud Photo Library iCloud Photo Library gives you access to your photos and videos on any iOS 8.1 or later device, Mac with OS X Yosemite v10.10.3 or later, and on iCloud.com using the same Apple ID. You can make changes to photos and videos in the Photos app, preserve both the original and edited versions, and see the changes updated across your devices (see Edit photos and trim videos on page 91). Store as many photos and videos as your iCloud storage plan allows. Note:  If you turn on iCloud Photo Library, you can’t use iTunes to sync photos and videos to iPhone. Turn on iCloud Photo Library. Go to Settings > iCloud > Photos. Or go to Settings > Photos & Camera. View photos and videos in iCloud Photo Library. In addition to viewing your photos and videos in the Photos tab, organized by Years, Collections, and Moments, you can also view them as a continuous stream, organized by date added, in the All Photos album. Choose to optimize your storage or keep all your photos and videos in full-resolution on iPhone. If your iCloud storage plan is over 5 GB, Optimize iPhone Storage is on by default. It manages your device storage by automatically keeping full-resolution photos and videos in iCloud and lightweight versions on your iPhone, as space is needed. Tap Download and Keep Originals to keep your full-resolution originals on your iPhone. Your originals are always stored in iCloud. Download a full-resolution photo or video. If you’re not storing original versions on iPhone, simply pinch to zoom in to 100%, or tap Edit. Note:  To upload photos and videos to iCloud Photo Library, iPhone must be connected to Wi-Fi. Using a cellular connection, you can download up to 100 MB at a time. If your uploaded photos and videos exceed your storage plan, you can upgrade your iCloud storage. Go to Settings > iCloud > Storage > Change Storage Plan to learn about the available options. Chapter 11 Photos 89 My Photo Stream My Photo Stream, turned on by default, automatically uploads new photos and videos to your other devices that use My Photo Stream. Turn My Photo Stream on or off. Go to Settings > Photos & Camera, or Settings > iCloud > Photos. Note:  Photos stored in iCloud count against your total iCloud storage, but photos uploaded to My Photo Stream don’t count additionally against your iCloud storage. Use My Photo Stream without iCloud Photo Library. Photos and videos you take with iPhone are added to the My Photo Stream album when you leave the Camera app and iPhone is connected to Wi-Fi. Any photos you add—including screenshots and photos saved from email, for example—also appear in your My Photo Stream album. Photos and videos added to My Photo Stream on your other devices appear in your My Photo Stream album on iPhone. iOS devices can keep up to 1000 of your most recent photos in iCloud for 30 days; you can choose to automatically import these photos to your computer, if you want to keep them permanently. Manage My Photo Stream contents. In the My Photo Stream album, tap Select. • Save your best shots on iPhone:  Select the photos, then tap Add To. • Share, print, or copy:  Select the photos, then tap . • Delete photos:  Select the photos, then tap . Note:  Although deleted photos are removed from My Photo Stream on all your devices, the original photos remain in Photos on the device on which they were originally taken. Photos that you save to another album on a device or computer are also not deleted. See support.apple.com/kb/HT4486. Use My Photo Stream with iCloud Photo Library. If you use iCloud Photo Library on iPhone, you can use My Photo Stream to upload recent photos and videos and view them on other devices that do not have iCloud Photo Library enabled. iCloud Photo Sharing With iCloud Photo Sharing, you can create albums of photos and videos to share, and subscribe to other people’s shared albums. You can invite others using iCloud Photo Sharing (iOS 6 or later or OS X Mountain Lion or later) to view your albums, and they can leave comments if they wish. If they’re using iOS 7 or OS X Mavericks or later, they can add their own photos and videos. You can also publish your album to a website for anyone to view. iCloud Photo Sharing works with or without iCloud Photo Library and My Photo Stream. Chapter 11 Photos 90 Note:  To use iCloud Photo Sharing, iPhone must be connected to the Internet. iCloud Photo Sharing works over both Wi-Fi and cellular networks. Cellular data charges may apply. See Usage information on page 188. Create new shared albums or add photos to existing ones. Create new shared albums or add photos to existing ones. Turn on iCloud Photo Sharing. Go to Settings > iCloud > Photos. Or go to Settings > Photos & Camera. Share photos and videos. While viewing a photo or video, or when you’ve selected multiple photos or videos, tap , tap iCloud Photo Sharing, add comments, then share to an existing shared album or create a new one. You can invite people to view your shared album using their email address or the mobile phone number they use for Messages. Enable a public website. Select the shared album, tap People, then turn on Public Website. Tap Share Link if you want to announce the site. Add items to a shared album. View a shared album, tap , select items, then tap Done. You can add a comment, then tap Post. Delete photos from a shared album. Select the shared album, tap Select, select the photos or videos you want to delete, then tap . You must be the owner of the shared album, or the owner of the photo. Delete comments from a shared album. Select the photo or video that contains the comment. Touch and hold the comment, then tap Delete. You must be the owner of the shared album, or the owner of the comment. Rename a shared album. Tap Shared, tap Edit, then tap the name and enter a new one. Add or remove subscribers, or turn Notifications on or off. Select the shared album, then tap People. Subscribe to a shared album. When you receive an invitation, tap the Shared tab , then tap Accept. You can also accept an invitation in an email. Add items to a shared album you subscribed to. View the shared album, then tap . Select items, then tap Done. You can add a comment, then tap Post. See your Family album. When Family Sharing is set up, a shared album called “Family” is automatically created in Photos on all family members’ devices. Everyone in the family can contribute photos, videos, and comments to the album, and be notified whenever something new is added. For more information about setting up Family Sharing, see Family Sharing on page 38. Chapter 11 Photos 91 Other ways to share photos and videos You can share photos and videos in Mail or Messages, or through other apps you install. Share or copy a photo or video. View a photo or video, then tap . If you don’t see , tap the screen to show the controls. Tap More in Sharing to turn on the apps you want to use for sharing. The size limit of attachments is determined by your service provider. iPhone may compress photo and video attachments, if necessary. You can also copy a photo or video, then paste it into an email or text message (MMS or iMessage). Share or copy multiple photos and videos. While viewing by moment, tap Share. Save or share a photo or video you receive. • Email:  Tap to download it if necessary, then touch and hold the item to see sharing and other options. • Text message:  Tap the item in the conversation, then tap . Photos and videos that you receive in messages or save from a webpage are saved to your Photos tab. They can also be viewed in the Camera Roll or, if you’re using iCloud Photo Library, the All Photos album. Edit photos and trim videos You can edit photos right on iPhone. If your photos are stored in iCloud, your edits are updated across all your devices set up with iCloud, and both your original and edited versions are saved. If you delete a photo, it’s deleted from all your devices and iCloud. Photo app extensions can provide special editing options. See App extensions on page 26. Edit a photo. View the photo full screen, tap Edit, then tap one of the tools. To edit a photo not taken with iPhone, tap the photo, tap Edit, then tap Duplicate and Edit. • Auto-enhance improves a photo’s exposure, contrast, saturation, and other qualities. • With the Remove Red-eye tool , tap each eye that needs correcting. • Tap , and Photos suggests an optimal crop, but you can drag the corners of the grid tool to set your own crop. Move the wheel to tilt or straighten the photo. Tap Auto to align the photo with the horizon, and tap Reset to undo alignment changes. Tap to rotate the photo 90 degrees. Tap to choose a standard crop ratio, such as 2:3 or Square. Rotate photo. Rotate photo. Move the wheel to tilt or straighten. Move the wheel to tilt or straighten. Choose a standard photo format. Choose a standard photo format. • Photo filters let you apply different color effects, such as Mono or Chrome. Chapter 11 Photos 92 • Tap Adjustments to set Light, Color, and B&W (black & white) options. Tap the down arrow, then tap next to Light, Color, or B&W to choose the element you want to adjust. Move the slider to the desired effect. Compare the edited version to the original. Touch and hold the photo to view the original. Release to see your edits. Don’t like the results? Tap Cancel, then tap Discard Changes. Tap Done to save changes. Revert to original. After you edit a photo and save your edits, you can revert to the original image. Tap the image, tap Edit, then tap Revert. Trim a video. Tap the screen to display the controls, drag either end of the frame viewer, then tap Trim. Important:  If you choose Trim Original, the trimmed frames are permanently deleted from the original video. If you choose Save as New Clip, a new trimmed video clip is saved in your Videos album and the original video is unaffected. Set the Slo-Mo section of a video. (iPhone 5s or later) Use the vertical bars beneath the frame viewer to set the section of the video you want to play in slow motion. Print photos Print to an AirPrint-enabled printer. • Print a single photo:  Tap , then tap Print. • Print multiple photos:  While viewing a photo album, tap Select, select the photos, tap , then tap Print. See AirPrint on page 41. Photos settings Settings for Photos are in Settings > Photos & Camera. These include: • iCloud Photo Library, My Photo Stream, iCloud Photo Sharing, and Upload Burst Photos • Photos Tab • Slideshow • Camera Grid • HDR (High Dynamic Range) 12 93 Camera Camera at a glance Quick! Get the camera! From the Lock screen, just swipe up. Or swipe up from the bottom edge of the screen to open Control Center, then tap . Note:  When you open Camera from the Lock screen, you can view and edit photos and videos you take while the device is locked by tapping the thumbnail at the lower-left corner of the screen. To share photos and videos, first unlock iPhone. With iPhone, you can take both still photos and HD videos. And, there are two cameras—in addition to the iSight camera on the back of iPhone, there’s a camera on the front that you can use for FaceTime calls and selfies. Chapter 12 Camera 94 The LED flash provides extra light when you need it—even as a flashlight, just a swipe away in Control Center. See Control Center on page 35. View the photos and videos you’ve taken. View the photos and videos you’ve taken. Switch between cameras. Switch between cameras. Filter Filter Take a photo. Take a photo. HDR is in use. HDR is in use. Set True Tone Flash mode. Set True Tone Flash mode. Take a timed photo. Take a timed photo. Take photos and videos Camera offers several photo and video modes, which let you shoot stills, square-format photos, panoramas, time-lapse, videos, and slow-motion videos (iPhone 5s or later). Choose a mode. Drag the screen left or right, or tap the camera mode labels to choose TimeLapse, Slo-Mo, Video, Photo, Square, or Pano. Take a photo. Choose Photo, then tap the Take Picture button or press either volume button. • Take Burst shots:  (iPhone 5s or later) Touch and hold the Take Picture button to take rapid-fire photos in bursts (available while in Square or Photo mode). The shutter sound is different, and the counter shows how many shots you’ve taken, until you lift your finger. To see the suggested shots and select the photos you want to keep, tap the thumbnail, then tap Select. The gray dot(s) mark the suggested photos. To copy a photo from the burst as a separate photo in your Bursts album in Photos, tap the circle in the lower-right corner of the photo. To delete the burst of photos, tap it, then tap . • Apply a filter:  Tap to apply different color effects, such as Mono or Chrome. To turn off a filter, tap , then tap None. You can also apply a filter later, when you edit the photo. See Edit photos and trim videos on page 91. A rectangle briefly appears where the exposure is set. When you photograph people, face detection balances the exposure across up to 10 faces. A rectangle appears for each face detected. Note:  On iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, you might not always see an automatic exposure rectangle, but the focus and exposure are being set. Chapter 12 Camera 95 Exposure is automatic, but you can set the exposure manually for the next shot by tapping an object or area on the screen. With an iSight camera, tapping the screen sets the focus and the exposure, and face detection is temporarily turned off. To lock the exposure and focus, touch and hold until the rectangle pulses. Take as many photos as you want. When you tap the screen again, the automatic settings and face detection turn back on. Adjust the exposure. Tap to see next to the exposure rectangle, then slide up or down to adjust the exposure. Take a panorama photo. (iSight camera) Choose Pano, tap the Take Picture button, then pan slowly in the direction of the arrow. To pan in the other direction, first tap the arrow. To pan vertically, first rotate iPhone to landscape orientation. You can reverse the direction of a vertical pan, too. Capture an experience with time-lapse. (iSight camera) Choose Time-Lapse, set up iPhone where you want, then tap the Record Time-Lapse Video button to start capturing a sunset, a flower opening, or other experiences over a period of time. Tap the Record Time-Lapse Video button again to stop. The time-lapse photos are compiled into a short video that you can watch and share. Shoot some video. Choose Video, then tap the Record Video button or press either volume button to start and stop recording. Video records at 30 fps (frames per second). With iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus, you can switch it to 60 fps in Settings > Photos & Camera. • Snap a still while recording:  (iPhone 5 or later) Tap the white Take Picture button in the lower-left corner. • Take it slow:  (iPhone 5s or later) Choose Slo-Mo to shoot slow motion video. You can set which section to play back in slow motion when you edit the video. On iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, you can tap the bottom-right corner of the screen to switch between 120 fps and 240 fps. Set the slow-motion section of a video. Tap the thumbnail, then use the vertical bars beneath the frame viewer to set the section you want to play back in slow motion. Slide to adjust the slow-motion section of the video. Slide to adjust the slow-motion section of the video. Use Siri. Say something like: • “Open Camera” • “Take a picture” Chapter 12 Camera 96 Zoom in or out. (iSight camera) Pinch the image on the screen. For iPhone 5 or later, zoom works in video mode as well as photo mode. If Location Services is turned on, photos and videos are tagged with location data that can be used by apps and photo-sharing websites. See Privacy on page 43. Use the capture timer to put yourself in the shot. Avoid “camera shake” or add yourself to a picture by using the capture timer. To include yourself, first stabilize iPhone and frame your shot. Tap , tap 3s (seconds) or 10s, then tap the Take Picture button. Want to capture what’s displayed on your screen? Simultaneously press and release the Sleep/ Wake and Home buttons. The screenshot is added to the Photos tab in Photos and can also be viewed in the Camera Roll album or All Photos album (if you’re using iCloud Photo Library). Make it better. You can edit photos and trim videos, right on iPhone. See Edit photos and trim videos on page 91. HDR HDR (High Dynamic Range) helps you get great shots in high-contrast situations. iPhone takes multiple photos in rapid succession, at different exposure settings—and blends them together. The resulting photo has better detail in the bright and midtone areas. Use HDR. (iSight cameras and the FaceTime camera on iPhone 5s or later) Tap the HDR button. For best results, keep iPhone steady and avoid subject motion. On iPhone 5s or later, you can choose HDR Auto, and iPhone uses HDR when it’s most effective. Keep the normal photo and the HDR version. Go to Settings > Photos & Camera > Keep Normal Photo. Both the normal and HDR versions of the photo appear in Photos. HDR versions of photos in your albums are marked with “HDR” in the corner. View, share, and print Photos and videos you take are saved in Photos. With iCloud Photo Library enabled, all new photos and videos are automatically uploaded and available in Photos on all your iOS 8.1 or later devices set up with iCloud Photo Library. See iCloud Photo Library on page 88. When iCloud Photo Library is turned off, you can still collect up to 1,000 of your most recent photos in the My Photo Stream album from your devices set up with iCloud. See My Photo Stream on page 89. View your photos. Tap the thumbnail image, then swipe left or right to see the photos you’ve taken recently. Tap All Photos to see everything in the Photos app. Tap the screen to show or hide the controls. Get sharing and printing options. Tap . See Share from apps on page 37. Upload photos and videos. Use iCloud Photo Library to upload photos and videos from your iPhone to iCloud and access them on your iOS 8.1 or later devices signed in to iCloud using the same Apple ID. You can also upload and download your photos and videos from the Photos app on iCloud.com. See iCloud Photo Library on page 88. Chapter 12 Camera 97 Camera settings Go to Settings > Photos & Camera for camera options, which include: • iCloud Photo Library, My Photo Stream, and iCloud Photo Sharing • Burst photos • Slideshow • Grid • HDR Adjust the volume of the shutter sound with the Ringer and Alerts settings in Settings > Sounds. Or mute the sound using the Ring/Silent switch. (In some countries, muting is disabled.) 13 98 Weather Get the current temperature and ten-day forecast for one or more cities around the world, with hourly forecasts for the next 12 hours. Weather uses Location Services to get the forecast for your current location. Current conditions Current conditions Add or delete cities. Add or delete cities. Current temperature Current temperature Current hourly forecast Current hourly forecast Number of cities stored Number of cities stored Swipe up to see your detailed forecast. Swipe left or right to see weather for another city, or tap , then choose a city from the list. The leftmost screen shows your local weather when Location Services is on (Settings > Privacy > Location Services). Add a city or make other changes. Tap . • Add a city:  Tap . Enter a city or zip code, then tap Search. • Rearrange the order of cities:  Touch and hold a city, then drag it up or down. • Delete a city:  Slide the city to the left, then tap Delete. • Choose Fahrenheit or Celsius:  Tap °F or °C. View the current hourly forecast. Swipe the hourly display left or right. Use Siri. Say something like: • “What’s the weather for today?” • “How windy is it out there?” • “When is sunrise in Paris?” Chapter 13 Weather 99 See all cities at once. Pinch the screen or tap . Turn local weather on or off. Go to Settings > Privacy > Location Services. See Privacy on page 43. Use iCloud to push your list of cities to your other iOS devices. Go to Settings > iCloud, then make sure iCloud Drive or Documents & Data is on. See iCloud on page 17. 14 100 Clock Clock at a glance The first clock displays the time based on your location when you set up iPhone. Add other clocks to show the time in other major cities and time zones. Delete clocks or change their order. Delete clocks or change their order. Add a clock. Add a clock. View clocks, set an alarm, time an event, or set a timer. View clocks, set an alarm, time an event, or set a timer. Chapter 14 Clock 101 Alarms and timers Want iPhone to wake you? Tap Alarm, then tap . Set your wake-up time and other options, then give the alarm a name (like “Good morning”). Tap to change options or delete an alarm. Tap to change options or delete an alarm. Turn saved alarms on or off. Turn saved alarms on or off. No wasting time! You can also use the stopwatch to keep time, record lap times, or set a timer to alert you when time’s up. Want to fall asleep to music or a podcast? Tap Timer, tap When Timer Ends, then choose Stop Playing at the bottom. Get quick access to clock features. Swipe up from the bottom edge of the screen to open Control Center, then tap . You can access Timer from Control Center even when iPhone is locked. You can also navigate to the other clock features. Use Siri. Say something like: • “Set the timer for 3 minutes” • “Wake me up tomorrow at 7 a.m.” • “What alarms do I have set?” 15 102 Maps Find places WARNING:  For important information about navigation and avoiding distractions that could lead to dangerous situations, see Important safety information on page 183. See also Privacy on page 43. Choose the view, drop a pin, or show traffic. Choose the view, drop a pin, or show traffic. Tap a pin to display the banner. Tap a pin to display the banner. Quick driving directions Quick driving directions Get more info. Get more info. Current location Current location Enter a search. Enter a search. Show your current location. Show your current location. Get directions. Get directions. Move around Maps by dragging the screen. To face a different direction, rotate with two fingers. To return to north, tap the compass in the upper right. Zoom in or out. Double-tap with one finger to zoom in, and tap with two fingers to zoom out— or pinch open or closed. The scale appears in the upper left while zooming, or if you touch the screen with two fingers. To change how distance is shown (miles or kilometers), go to Settings > Maps. Search for a location. Tap the search field. You can search for a location in different ways. For example: • Intersection (“8th and market”) • Area (“greenwich village”) • Landmark (“guggenheim”) Chapter 15 Maps 103 • Zip code • Business (“movies,” “restaurants san francisco ca,” “apple inc new york”) Maps may also list recent locations, searches, or directions that you can choose from. Use Siri. Say, for example, “Find coffee near me.” Find the location of a contact, or of a favorite or recent search. Tap Favorites. Choose your view. Tap , then choose Standard, Hybrid, or Satellite. Manually mark a location. Touch and hold the map until the dropped pin appears. Get more info Get info about a location. Tap a pin to display its banner, then tap . Info might include Yelp reviews and photos, a phone number (tap to call it), a webpage link, directions, and more. To share the location, add the location to your Favorites, or use another app you install, tap . See Share from apps on page 37. Get directions Note:  To get directions, iPhone must be connected to the Internet. To get directions involving your current location, Location Services must also be on. Get directions. Tap , enter the starting and ending locations, then tap Route. Or choose a location or a route from the list, if available. Tap to select driving or walking directions, or to use an app for public or other modes of transportation. If a location banner is showing, directions to that location from your current location appear. To get other directions, tap the search field. If multiple routes appear, tap the one you want to take. • Hear turn-by-turn directions:  Tap Start. Maps follows your progress and speaks turn-by-turn directions to your destination. To show or hide the controls, tap the screen. If iPhone auto-locks, Maps stays onscreen and continues to announce instructions. You can also open another app and continue to get turn-by-turn directions. To return to Maps, tap the banner across the top of the screen. With turn-by-turn directions, night mode automatically adjusts the screen image for easier viewing at night. • See the route overview:  Tap Overview. • View the directions as a list:  Tap List Steps. • Stop turn-by-turn directions:  Tap End. Or ask Siri to “stop navigating.” Get directions from your current location. Tap on the banner of your destination. Tap to select driving or walking directions, or to use an app for public or other modes of transportation. Use Siri. Say something like: • “Give me directions home” • “Directions to my dad’s work” • “What’s my ETA?” • “Find a gas station” Chapter 15 Maps 104 Use Maps on your Mac to get directions. Open Maps on your Mac (OS X Mavericks or later), get directions for your trip, then choose File > Share > Send to your device. Your Mac and iPhone must both be signed in to iCloud using the same Apple ID. Find out about traffic conditions. Tap , then tap Show Traffic. Orange dots show slowdowns, and red dots show stop-and-go traffic. To see an incident report, tap a marker. Report a problem. Tap , then tap Report a Problem. 3D and Flyover With 3D and Flyover, you can see three-dimensional views and even fly over many of the world’s major cities. The Transamerica Pyramid Building is a registered service mark of Transamerica Corporation. The Transamerica Pyramid Building is a registered service mark of Transamerica Corporation. View 3D map. Tap , then tap Show 3D Map. Or, drag two fingers up. (Zoom in for a closer look if Show 3D Map doesn’t appear.) Adjust the angle. Drag two fingers up or down. Take a Flyover Tour. An aerial tour is available for select cities, indicated by next to the city name. (Zoom out if you don’t see any markers.) Tap the name of the city to display its banner, then tap Tour to begin the tour. To stop the tour, tap the screen to display the controls, then tap End Flyover Tour. To return to standard view, tap . Maps settings Go to Settings > Maps. Settings include: • Navigation voice volume • Distances in miles or kilometers • Map labels (these appear in the language specified in Settings > General > International > Language) 16 105 Videos Videos at a glance Open the Videos app to watch movies, TV shows, and music videos. To watch video podcasts, open the Podcasts app—see Podcasts at a glance on page 139. To watch videos you record using Camera on iPhone, open the Photos app. Choose a category. Choose a category. Delete videos from your library. Delete videos from your library. Add to your library. Add to your library. Tap a video to play it. Tap a video to play it. This video hasn’t been downloaded to iPhone. This video hasn’t been downloaded to iPhone. WARNING:  For important information about avoiding hearing loss, see Important safety information on page 183. Watch a video. Tap the video in the list of videos. What about videos you shot with iPhone? Open the Photos app. Stream or download? If appears on a video thumbnail, you can watch it without downloading it to iPhone, if you have an Internet connection. To download the video to iPhone so you can watch without using a Wi-Fi or cellular connection, tap in the video details. Looking for podcasts or iTunes U videos? Open the Podcasts app or download the free iTunes U app from the App Store. Set a sleep timer. Open the Clock app and tap Timer, then swipe to set the number of hours and minutes. Tap When Timer Ends and choose Stop Playing, tap Set, then tap Start. Chapter 16 Videos 106 Add videos to your library Buy or rent videos from the iTunes Store. Tap Store in the Videos app, or open the iTunes Store app on iPhone, then tap Movies or TV Shows. The iTunes Store is not available in all areas. See Chapter 22, iTunes Store, on page 118. Transfer videos from your computer. Connect iPhone, then sync videos from iTunes on your computer. See Sync with iTunes on page 20. Stream videos from your computer. Turn on Home Sharing in iTunes on your computer. Then, on iPhone, go to Settings > Videos and enter the Apple ID and password you used for Home Sharing on your computer. Then open Videos on iPhone, and tap Shared at the top of the list of videos. Convert a video for iPhone. If you try to sync a video from iTunes to iPhone and a message says the video can’t play on iPhone, you can convert the video. Select the video in your iTunes library, then choose File > Create New Version > Create iPod or iPhone Version. Then sync the converted video to iPhone. Delete a video. Tap Edit in the upper right of your collection, then tap on the video thumbnail. If you don’t see the Edit button, look for on your video thumbnails—those videos haven’t been downloaded to iPhone, so you can’t delete them. To delete an individual episode of a series, swipe left on the episode in the Episodes list. Deleting a video (other than a rented movie) from iPhone doesn’t delete it from the iTunes library on your computer, and you can sync the video back to iPhone later. If you don’t want to sync the video back to iPhone, set iTunes to not sync the video. See Sync with iTunes on page 20. Important:  If you delete a rented movie from iPhone, it’s deleted permanently and cannot be transferred back to your computer. Control playback Watch on a TV with Apple TV. Watch on a TV with Apple TV. Tap to show or hide the controls. Tap to show or hide the controls. Drag to skip forward or back. Drag to skip forward or back. Drag to adjust the volume. Drag to adjust the volume. Scale the video to fill the screen or fit to the screen. Tap or . Or double-tap the video. If you don’t see the scaling controls, your video already fits the screen perfectly. Start over from the beginning. If the video contains chapters, drag the playhead along the scrubber bar all the way to the left. If there are no chapters, tap . Skip to the next or previous chapter. Tap or . You can also press the center button or equivalent on a compatible headset two times (skip to next) or three times (skip to previous). Rewind or fast-forward. Touch and hold or . Or drag the playhead left or right. Move your finger toward the bottom of the screen as you drag for finer control. Chapter 16 Videos 107 Select a different audio language. If the video offers other languages, tap , then choose a language from the Audio list. Show subtitles or closed captions. Tap . Not all videos offer subtitles or closed captions. Customize the appearance of closed captions. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Subtitles & Captioning. See closed captions and subtitles for the deaf and hard of hearing. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Subtitles & Captioning, then turn on Closed Captions + SDH. Watch the video on a TV. Tap . For more about AirPlay and other ways to connect, see AirPlay on page 41. Videos settings Go to Settings > Videos, where you can: • Choose where to resume playback the next time you open a video • Choose to show only videos that are downloaded to this device • Log in to Home Sharing 17 108 Notes Notes at a glance Type notes on iPhone, and iCloud automatically makes them available on your other iOS devices and Mac computers. You can also read and create notes in other accounts, such as Gmail or Yahoo!. Tap to edit. Tap to edit. Write a new note. Write a new note. Share or print. Share or print. Delete this note. Delete this note. See your notes on your other devices. If you use an icloud.com, me.com, or mac.com email address for iCloud, go to Settings > iCloud, then turn on Notes. If you use Gmail or another IMAP account for iCloud, go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars, then turn on Notes for the account. Your notes appear in Notes on all your other iOS devices and Mac computers that use the same Apple ID. Search for a note. Scroll to the top of a list of notes (or tap the top of the screen) to reveal the search field, then tap the field and type what you’re looking for. You can also search for notes from the Home screen—just drag down the middle of the screen. Share or print. Tap at the bottom of the note. You can share via Messages, Mail, or AirDrop (iPhone 5 or later). Delete a note. Swipe left over the note in the list of notes. Use Siri. Say something like: • “Create new note travel items” • “Add toothbrush to travel items” • “Add umbrella” Chapter 17 Notes 109 Use notes in multiple accounts Share notes with other accounts. You can share notes with other accounts, such as Google, Yahoo!, or AOL. Go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars, then turn on Notes for the account. Create a note in a specific account. Tap Accounts at the top of a list of notes, select the account, then tap New. Notes you create in the account on iPhone touch show up in the notes folder of the account. Choose the default account for new notes. Go to Settings > Notes. See all notes in an account. Tap Accounts at the top of a list of notes, then choose the account. 18 110 Reminders Reminders at a glance Reminders lets you keep track of all the things you need to do. Add a list. Add a list. Completed item Completed item Scheduled items Scheduled items Add a reminder. Tap a list, then tap a blank line. Share a list. Tap a list, then tap Edit. Tap Sharing, then tap Add Person. The people you share with also need to be iCloud users. After they accept your invitation to share the list, you’ll all be able to add, delete, and mark items as completed. Family members can also share a list. See Family Sharing on page 38. Use Siri. Say something like: • “Remember to take an umbrella” • “Add artichokes to my groceries list” • “Read my work to-do list” Delete a list. While viewing a list, tap Edit, then tap Delete List. All of the reminders in the list are also deleted. Delete a reminder. Swipe the reminder left, then tap Delete. Change the order of lists. Touch and hold the list name, then drag the list to a new location. To change the order of items in a list, tap Edit. Chapter 18 Reminders 111 What list was that in? Scroll to the top to see the search field. All lists are searched by the reminder name. You can also use Siri to find reminders. For example, say “Find the reminder about milk.” With OS X Yosemite, you can hand off reminders you’re editing between your Mac and iPhone. See About Continuity features on page 26. Scheduled reminders Scheduled reminders notify you when they’re due. Scheduled reminder Scheduled reminder Schedule a reminder. While editing a reminder, tap , then turn on “Remind me on a day.” Tap Alarm to set the date and time. Tap Repeat to schedule the reminder for regularly occurring intervals. Use Siri. Say, for example, “Remind me to take my medicine at 6 a.m. tomorrow.” See all scheduled reminders. Tap to show the Scheduled list. Don’t bother me now. You can turn off Reminders notifications in Settings > Notifications. To silence notifications temporarily, turn on Do Not Disturb. Location reminders Adjust the geofence. Adjust the geofence. Find an address. Find an address. Be reminded when you arrive at or leave a location. While editing a reminder, tap , then turn on “Remind me at a location.” Tap Location, then choose a location from the list, or enter an address. After you define a location, you can drag to change the size of the geofence on the map, which sets the approximate distance at which you want to be reminded. You can’t save a location reminder in Outlook or Microsoft Exchange calendars. Use Siri. Say, for example, “Remind me to stop at the grocery store when I leave here.” Add common locations to your My Info card. When you set a location reminder, locations in the list include addresses from your My Info card in Contacts. Add your work, home, and other favorite addresses to your card for easy access in Reminders. Chapter 18 Reminders 112 Reminders settings Go to Settings > Reminders, where you can: • Set a default list for new reminders • Sync past reminders Keep your reminders up to date on other devices. Go to Settings > iCloud, then turn on Reminders. To keep up to date with Reminders on OS X, turn on iCloud on your Mac, too. Some other types of accounts, such as Exchange, also support Reminders. Go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars, then turn on Reminders for the accounts you want to use. 19 113 Stocks Keep track of the major exchanges and your stock portfolio, see the change in value over time, and get news about the companies you’re watching. Tap to see market capitalization. Tap again to see percent change. Tap to see market capitalization. Tap again to see percent change. Swipe left or right to see stats or news articles. Swipe left or right to see stats or news articles. Manage your stock list. Tap . • Add an item:  Tap . Enter a symbol, company name, fund name, or index, then tap Search. • Delete an item:  Tap . • Rearrange the order of items:  Drag up or down. While viewing stock info, you can tap any of the values along the right side of the screen to switch the display to price change, market capitalization, or percentage change. Swipe the info beneath the stock list to see the summary, chart, or news for the selected stock. Tap a news headline to view the article in Safari. On iPhone 6 Plus, use landscape orientation to see your stock list with news, or with the summary and chart, all at the same time. You can also see your stocks in the Today tab of Notification Center. See Notification Center on page 36. Note:  Quotes may be delayed 20 minutes or more, depending upon the reporting service. Add a news article to your reading list. Touch and hold the news headline, then tap Add to Reading List. Chapter 19 Stocks 114 Use Siri. Say something like: • “How are the markets going?” • “How’s Apple stock today?” Find out more. Tap YAHOO! View a full-screen chart. Rotate iPhone to landscape orientation. (On iPhone 6 Plus, rotate to landscape orientation, then touch the chart to expand it to the full-screen view.) Swipe left or right to see your other stock charts. • See the value for a specific date or time:  Touch the chart with one finger. • See the difference in value over time:  Touch the chart with two fingers. Use iCloud to keep your stock list up to date on your iOS devices. Go to Settings > iCloud, then turn on iCloud Drive or Documents & Data. See iCloud on page 17. 20 115 Game Center Game Center at a glance Game Center lets you play your favorite games with friends who have an iOS device or a Mac (OS X Mountain Lion or later). You must be connected to the Internet to use Game Center. WARNING:   For important information about avoiding repetitive motion injuries, see Important safety information on page 183. Declare your status or change your photo. Declare your status or change your photo. See who’s the best. See who’s the best. Choose a game. Choose a game. It’s on! It’s on! Is it your turn? Is it your turn? Play, share, or remove this game. Play, share, or remove this game. Find someone to play against. Find someone to play against. Explore game goals. Explore game goals. Invite friends to play. Invite friends to play. Get started. Open Game Center. If you see your nickname at the top of the screen, you’re already signed in. Otherwise, you’ll be asked for your Apple ID and password. Get some games. Tap Games, then tap a recommended game, browse for games in the App Store (look for Supports Game Center in the game details), or get a game one of your friends has (see Play games with friends on page 116). Play! Tap Games, choose a game, tap in the upper right, then tap Play. Sign out? No need to sign out when you quit Game Center, but if you want to, go to Settings > Game Center, then tap your Apple ID. Chapter 20 Game Center 116 Play games with friends Invite friends to a multiplayer game. Tap Friends, choose a friend, choose a game, then tap Play. If the game allows or requires more players, choose the players, then tap Next. Send your invitation, then wait for the others to accept. When everyone’s ready, start the game. If a friend isn’t available or doesn’t respond, you can tap Auto-Match to have Game Center find another player for you, or tap Invite Friend to invite someone else. Send a friend request. Tap Friends, tap , then enter your friend’s email address or Game Center nickname. To browse your contacts, tap . (To add several friends in one request, type Return after each address.) Or, tap any player you see anywhere in Game Center. Challenge someone to outdo you. Tap one of your scores or achievements, then tap Challenge Friends. What are your friends playing and how are they doing? Tap Friends, tap your friend’s name, then tap the Games or Points bubble. Want to purchase a game your friend has? Tap Friends, then tap your friend’s name. Tap his or her Games bubble, tap the game in your friend’s game list, then tap in the upper right. Make new friends. To see a list of your friend’s friends, tap Friends, tap your friend’s name, then tap his or her Friends bubble. Unfriend a friend. Tap Friends, tap the friend’s name, then tap in the upper right. Keep your email address private. Turn off Public Profile in your Game Center account settings. See Game Center settings below. Turn off multiplayer activity or friend requests. Go to Settings > General > Restrictions. If the switches are dimmed, first tap Enable Restrictions at the top. Keep it friendly. To report offensive or inappropriate behavior, tap Friends, tap the person’s name, tap in the upper right, then tap Report a Problem. Game Center settings Go to Settings > Game Center, where you can: • Sign out (tap your Apple ID) • Allow invites • Let nearby players find you • Edit your Game Center profile (tap your nickname) • Get friend recommendations from Contacts or Facebook Specify which notifications you want for Game Center. Go to Settings > Notifications > Game Center. If Game Center doesn’t appear, turn on Notifications. Change restrictions for Game Center. Go to Settings > General > Restrictions. 21 117 Newsstand Newsstand organizes your magazine and newspaper apps, and automatically updates them when iPhone is connected to Wi-Fi. Touch and hold a publication to rearrange. Touch and hold a publication to rearrange. Find Newsstand apps. Find Newsstand apps. Note:  You need an Internet connection and an Apple ID to download Newsstand apps, but you can read downloaded content without an Internet connection. Newsstand is not available in all areas. Find Newsstand apps. Tap Newsstand to reveal the shelf, then tap Store. When you purchase a Newsstand app, it’s added to the shelf. After the app is downloaded, open it to view its issues and subscription options. Subscriptions are In-App purchases, billed to your Apple ID account. Turn off automatic updates. Apps update automatically over Wi-Fi, unless you turn off the option in Settings > General > Background App Refresh. 22 118 iTunes Store iTunes Store at a glance Use the iTunes Store to add music, movies, TV shows, and more to iPhone. See purchases, tones, audiobooks, and more. See purchases, tones, audiobooks, and more. View your lists. View your lists. Browse Browse Note:  You need an Internet connection and an Apple ID to use the iTunes Store. The iTunes Store is not available in all areas. Browse or search Browse by category or genre. Tap one of the categories (Music, Movies, or TV Shows). Tap Genres to refine the list. If you know what you’re looking for, tap Search. You can tap a search term that’s trending among other iTunes users, or enter info in the search field, then tap Search again. Access family members’ purchases. With Family Sharing turned on, you can view and download songs, TV shows, and movies purchased by other family members. Tap Purchased, tap your name or My Purchases, then select a family member from the menu. Find it with Siri. Siri can search for items and make purchases in the iTunes Store. For example, you can say “Get a new ringtone” or “Purchase song name by band name.” You can also ask Siri to download a podcast or redeem a gift card. Chapter 22 iTunes Store 119 Ask Siri to tag it. When you hear music playing around you, ask Siri “What song is playing?” Siri tells you what the song is and gives you an easy way to purchase it. It also saves it to the Siri tab in the iTunes Store so you can buy it later. Tap Music, tap , then tap the Siri tab to see a list of tagged songs available for preview or purchase. Tap to see your Wish List and recommendations. Tap to see your Wish List and recommendations. Discover great new music on Radio. When you listen to Radio, songs you play appear in the Radio tab in the iTunes Store so you can preview or purchase them. Tap Music, tap , then tap Radio. Preview a song or video. Tap it. Add to your Wish List. When you hear something you hope to buy from the iTunes Store, tap , then tap Add to Wish List. To view your Wish List in the iTunes Store, tap Music, Movies, or TV Shows, tap , then tap Wish List. Pick your favorite buttons To rearrange the buttons, tap More, then tap Edit. To replace an icon, drag another icon over the one you want to replace. Then tap Done. Purchase, rent, or redeem Tap an item’s price (or tap Free), then tap again to buy it. If you see instead of a price, you’ve already purchased the item and you can download it again without a charge. Approve purchases with Family Sharing. With Family Sharing set up, the family organizer can review and approve purchases made by family members under the age of 18. For example, if Parent/Guardian > Ask to Buy is set for specific minor family members, when those members try to make a purchase, a message is sent to the family organizer for approval. For more information about setting up Family Sharing, see Family Sharing on page 38. Chapter 22 iTunes Store 120 Note:  Age restrictions for Ask to Buy vary by area. In the United States, the family organizer can enable Ask to Buy for any family member under age 18; for children under age 13, it’s enabled by default. Hide individual purchases. Using iTunes on a computer, family members can hide any of their purchases so other family members can’t view or download them. For more information, see Family Sharing on page 38. Use a gift card or code. Tap a category (for example, Music), scroll to the bottom, then tap Redeem. Or tell Siri “Redeem an iTunes Store gift card.” Use iTunes Pass. You can add an iTunes Pass to Passbook, which makes it easy to add money to your Apple ID so you can make purchases from the iTunes Store, App Store, and iBooks Store without using a credit or debit card. To add your iTunes Pass in iTunes Store, tap a category, scroll to the bottom, tap Redeem, then tap Get Started under iTunes Pass. You can add money to your iTunes Pass at Apple Retail Stores in most countries. Send a gift. View the item you want to give, tap , then tap Gift. Or tap one of the categories (Music, Movies, or TV Shows), scroll to the bottom, then tap Send Gift to send an iTunes gift certificate to someone. See the progress of a download. Tap More, then tap Downloads. Bought something on another device? Go to Settings > iTunes & App Store to set up automatic downloads on your iPhone. You can always view your purchased music, movies, and TV shows in the iTunes Store (tap More, then tap Purchased). Watch your time with rentals. In some areas, you can rent movies. You have 30 days to begin watching a rented movie. After you start watching it, you can play it as many times as you want in the allotted time (24 hours in the U.S. iTunes Store; 48 hours in other countries). Once your time’s up, the movie is deleted. Rentals can’t be transferred to another device; however, you can use AirPlay and Apple TV to view a rental on your television. iTunes Store settings To set options for the iTunes Store, go to Settings > iTunes & App Store. View or edit your account. Tap your Apple ID, then tap View Apple ID. To change your password, tap the Apple ID field, then tap Password. Sign in using a different Apple ID. Tap your account name, then tap Sign Out. You can then enter a different Apple ID. Subscribe to or turn on iTunes Match. You can subscribe to iTunes Match, a service that stores your music and more in iCloud. See iTunes Match on page 75. If you’re a subscriber, turn on iTunes Match so you can access your music on iPhone anywhere. Turn on automatic downloads. Tap Music, Books, or Updates. Content updates automatically over Wi-Fi, unless you turn off the option in Automatic Downloads. Download purchases over the cellular network. Turn on Use Cellular Data. Downloading purchases and using iTunes Match over the cellular network may incur carrier charges. 23 121 App Store App Store at a glance Use the App Store to browse, purchase, and download apps to iPhone. Your apps update automatically over Wi-Fi (unless you turn off this feature), so you can keep up with the latest improvements and features. View purchases and updates. View purchases and updates. Browse Browse Explore apps by category and popularity. Explore apps by category and popularity. See your Wish List and other suggestions for you. See your Wish List and other suggestions for you. Note:  You need an Internet connection and an Apple ID to use the App Store. The App Store is not available in all areas. Find apps If you know what you’re looking for, tap Search. Or tap Categories to browse by type of app. Ask Siri to find it. Siri can search for items and make purchases in the App Store. For example, tell Siri to “Find apps by Apple” or “Purchase app name.” Access family members’ apps. With Family Sharing turned on, you can view and download apps purchased by other family members. Tap Purchased, tap your name or My Purchases, then select a family member from the menu. For more information, see Family Sharing on page 38. Want to tell a friend about an app? Find the app, tap , then choose the method. See Share from apps on page 37. Chapter 23 App Store 122 Use Wish List. To track an app you might want to purchase later, tap on the app page, then tap Add to Wish List. Search apps by category. Tap Explore, scroll to Categories, then tap a category to focus on the apps you want, for example, Education, Medical, or Sports. Tap subcategories to further refine your results. What apps are being used nearby? Tap Explore to find out the most popular apps others around you are using (Location Services must be on in Settings > Privacy > Location Services). Try this at a museum, sporting event, or when you’re traveling, to dig deeper into your experience. Tap to learn more, download, or purchase. Tap to learn more, download, or purchase. Check out apps in your areas of interest. Check out apps in your areas of interest. Delete an app. Touch and hold the app icon on the Home screen until the icon jiggles, then tap . When you finish, press the Home button. You can’t delete built-in apps. Deleting an app also deletes its data. You can download any app you’ve purchased from the App Store again, free of charge. For information about erasing all of your apps, data, and settings, see Restart or reset iPhone on page 186. Purchase, redeem, and download Tap the app’s price, then tap Buy to purchase it. If it’s free, tap Free, then tap Install. If you see instead of a price, you’ve already purchased the app and you can download it again, free of charge. While the app is downloading or updating, its icon appears on the Home screen with a progress indicator. Approve purchases with Family Sharing. With Family Sharing set up, the family organizer can review and approve purchases made by other family members under the age of 18. For example, if Parent/Guardian > Ask to Buy is set for specific minor family members, when those members try to make a purchase, a message is sent to the family organizer for approval. For more information about setting up Family Sharing, see Family Sharing on page 38. Chapter 23 App Store 123 Note:  Age restrictions for Ask to Buy vary by area. In the United States, the family organizer can enable Ask to Buy for any family member under age 18; for children under age 13, it’s enabled by default. Hide individual purchases. Using iTunes on a computer, family members can hide any of their purchases so other family members can’t view or download them. For more information, see Family Sharing on page 38. Use a gift card or code. Tap Featured, scroll to the bottom, then tap Redeem. Or tell Siri “Redeem an iTunes Store gift card.” Send a gift. View the item you want to give, tap , then tap Gift. Or tap Featured, scroll to the bottom, then tap Send Gift to send an iTunes gift certificate to someone. Restrict in-app purchases. Many apps provide extra content or enhancements for a fee. To limit purchases that can be made from within an app, go to Settings > General > Restrictions (make sure Restrictions is enabled), then set options (for example, restrict by age rating or require a password immediately or every 15 minutes). You can turn off In-App Purchases to prevent all purchases. See Restrictions on page 43. Use iTunes Pass. You can add an iTunes Pass to Passbook, which makes it easy to add money to your Apple ID so you can make purchases from the iTunes Store, App Store, and iBooks Store without using a credit or debit card. To add your iTunes Pass in App Store, tap Featured, scroll to the bottom, tap Redeem, then tap Get Started under iTunes Pass. You can add money to your iTunes Pass at Apple Retail Stores in most countries. App Store settings To set options for the App Store, go to Settings > iTunes & App Store. View or edit your account. Tap your Apple ID, then tap View Apple ID. To change your password, tap the Apple ID field, then tap Password. Sign in using a different Apple ID. Tap your account name, then tap Sign Out. Then enter the other Apple ID. Turn off automatic downloads. Tap Apps in Automatic Downloads. Apps update automatically over Wi-Fi, unless you turn off the option. Download apps using the cellular network. Turn on Use Cellular Data. Downloading apps over the cellular network may incur carrier charges. Newsstand apps update only over Wi-Fi. 24 124 iBooks Get books Get books from the iBooks Store. In iBooks, use the buttons at the bottom of the screen to access the iBooks Store. Tap Featured to browse the latest releases, or Top Charts to view the most popular. To find a specific book, tap Search. Use Siri. Say, for example, “Find books by author name.” Read a book Go to a page. Go to a page. Bookmark this page. Bookmark this page. Contents, bookmarks, and notes Contents, bookmarks, and notes Search in this book. Search in this book. Open a book. Tap the book you want to read. If you don’t see it on the bookshelf, swipe left or right to see other collections. Show the controls. Tap near the center of a page. Not all books have the same controls, but some of the things you can do include searching, viewing the table of contents, and sharing what you’re reading. Close a book. Tap Library, or pinch the page. Enlarge an image. Double-tap the image. In some books, touch and hold to display a magnifying glass you can use to view an image. Read by columns. In books that support it, double-tap a column of text to zoom in, then swipe up or to the left to move to the next column. Chapter 24 iBooks 125 Go to a specific page. Use the page navigation controls at the bottom of the screen. Or tap and enter a page number, then tap the page number in the search results. Get a definition. Double-tap a word, then tap Define in the menu that appears. Definitions aren’t available for all languages. Remember your place. Tap to add a bookmark, or tap again to remove it. You can have multiple bookmarks—to see them all, tap , then tap Bookmarks. You don’t need to add a bookmark when you close the book because iBooks remembers where you left off. Remember the good parts. Some books let you add highlights and notes. To add a highlight, touch and hold a word, then move your finger to draw the highlight. To add a note, double-tap a word to select it, move the grab points to adjust the selection, then tap Note in the menu that appears. To see all the highlights and notes you’ve made, tap , then tap Notes. Share the good parts. Tap some highlighted text, then, in the menu that appears, tap . If the book is from the iBooks Store, a link to the book is included automatically. (Sharing may not be available in all regions.) Share a link to a book. Tap near the center of a page to display the controls, then tap . Tap , then tap Share Book. Change the way a book looks. Some books let you change the font, font size, and color of the page. (Tap .) You can also change justification and hyphenation in Settings > iBooks. These settings apply to all books that support them. Page color Page color Brightness Brightness Turn off pagination. Turn off pagination. Change the brightness. Tap . If you don’t see , tap first. Dim the screen when it’s dark. Turn on Auto-Night Theme to automatically change the bookshelf, page color, and brightness when using iBooks in low-light conditions. (Not all books support Auto-Night Theme.) Interact with multimedia Some books have interactive elements, such as movies, diagrams, presentations, galleries, and 3D objects. To interact with a multimedia object, tap, swipe, or pinch it. To view an element fullscreen, pinch open with two fingers. When you finish, pinch it closed. Study notes and glossary terms In books that support it, you can review all of your highlights and notes as study cards. See all your notes. Tap . You can search your notes, or tap a chapter to see notes you made in that chapter. Delete notes. Tap Select, select some notes, then tap . Chapter 24 iBooks 126 Review your notes as study cards. Tap Study Cards. Swipe to move between cards. Tap Flip Card to see its back. Shuffle your study cards. Tap , then turn on Shuffle. Study glossary terms. If a book includes a glossary, tap to include those words in your study cards. Listen to an audiobook Skip back and forward. Skip back and forward. View chapters. View chapters. Slide to skip back or forward. Slide to skip back or forward. Drag the playhead. Drag the playhead. Open an audiobook. Audiobooks are identified by a on the cover. Tap the book you want to listen to. If you don’t see it in the library, swipe left or right to view other collections. Skip farther forward or back. Touch and hold the arrows, or slide and hold the cover. To change the number of seconds that skipping moves, go to Settings > iBooks. Speed it up, or slow it down. Tap Speed, then choose a playback rate. 1x is normal speed, 0.75x is three-quarters speed, and so on. Go to a chapter. Tap , then tap a chapter. Some books don’t define chapter markers. Go to a specific time. Drag the playhead, located underneath the book cover. Where you started listening during this session is marked on the timeline. Tap the mark to jump to that spot. Set a sleep timer. Before starting playback, tap Sleep Timer, then choose a duration until the audio automatically stops playing. Download a previously purchased audiobook. You can redownload a book from the Purchased list in the iBooks Store. Chapter 24 iBooks 127 Organize books Sort the list. Sort the list. View collections. View collections. View on the iBooks Store View on the iBooks Store View books by title or by cover. Tap or . View only audiobooks or PDFs. Tap the name of the current collection (at the top of the screen) then choose PDFs or Audiobooks. Organize your books with collections. Tap Select, then select some books to move them into a collection. To edit or create collections, tap the name of the current collection (at the top of the screen). Some built-in collections, such as PDFs, can’t be renamed or deleted. Rearrange books. While viewing books by cover, touch and hold a cover, then drag it to a new location. While viewing books by title, sort the list using the buttons at the top of the screen. The All Books collection is automatically arranged for you; switch to another collection if you want to manually arrange your books. Search for a book. Pull down to reveal the Search field at the top of the screen. Searching looks for the title and the author’s name. Hide purchased books you haven’t downloaded. Tap the name of the current collection (at the top of the screen), then turn on Hide iCloud Books. Read PDFs Sync a PDF. On a Mac, add the PDF to iBooks for OS X, open iTunes, select the PDF, then sync. In iTunes on your Windows computer, choose File > Add to Library, select the PDF, then sync. See iTunes Help for more info about syncing. Add a PDF email attachment to iBooks. Open the email message, then touch and hold its PDF attachment. Choose Open in iBooks from the menu that appears. Print a PDF. With the PDF open, tap , then choose Print. You’ll need an AirPrint-compatible printer. For more about AirPrint, see AirPrint on page 41. Email a PDF. With the PDF open, tap , then choose Email. Chapter 24 iBooks 128 iBooks settings Restrict access to books and audiobooks with explicit content. Go to Settings > General > Restrictions then select an option for Books. Go to Settings > iBooks, where you can: • Sync collections and bookmarks (including notes and current page information) with your other devices. • Display online content within a book. Some books might access video or audio that’s stored on the web. • Change the direction pages turn when you tap in the left margin. 25 129 Health Your health at a glance Use the Health app to keep track of your health and fitness information. Enter data for key parameters, or let the Health app collect data from other apps and devices that monitor your health and activity. You can even share specific data with selected apps, and through apps with some health care providers. And, Health can display important contact and medical information on the iPhone Lock screen for someone attending to you in an emergency. If you have an Apple Watch, you can send activity, workout, and even heart rate data to your iPhone so you can view it in the Health app. WARNING:  iPhone, Apple Watch, and the Health app are not medical devices. See Important safety information on page 183. Tap any item to see details. Tap any item to see details. Make emergency medical info viewable on your Lock screen. Make emergency medical info viewable on your Lock screen. See all available data, control data sharing, or add to the Dashboard. See all available data, control data sharing, or add to the Dashboard. Connect devices that update your exercise or medical status. Connect devices that update your exercise or medical status. View selected health and fitness data. View selected health and fitness data. Chapter 25 Health 130 Collect health and fitness data Enter your own data. If the parameter is in your Dashboard, just tap it there, then tap Add Data Point. Otherwise, tap Health Data at the bottom of the screen, tap the parameter you want to update, then tap Add Data Point. Collect data from Apple Watch. Once you pair Apple Watch with your iPhone, data is automatically sent to the Health app. For example, to see heart rate data recorded by Apple Watch, open the Health app on iPhone, then tap Health Data > Vitals > Heart Rate. Collect data from another device. Follow the instructions that can come with the device to set it up. If it’s a Bluetooth device, you need to pair it with iPhone—see Bluetooth devices on page 42. Collect data from an app. Follow the instructions that can come with the app to set it up, then watch for a sharing request where you control whether data is shared with the Health app. Stop app data collection. Tap Sources at the bottom of the Health screen, then select the app in the Apps list. Or tap the associated parameter in your Dashboard or in the Health Data list, tap Share Data, then choose the app under Data Sources. Share health and fitness data Share data. Follow the instructions that can come with the app or the device to set it up, then watch for a sharing request where you control whether data is shared by the Health app. For example, your health care provider might provide an app that sends blood pressure updates to your doctor. You need only install the app, then allow the Health app to share blood pressure data when prompted. Stop sharing data. Tap Sources at the bottom of the Health screen, then select the app in the Apps list. Or tap the associated parameter in your Dashboard or in the Health Data list, tap Share Data, then choose the app under Share Data With. Create an emergency medical ID Your iPhone can display important contact and medical information on the Lock screen, where it’s available for someone attending to you in an emergency. Note:  Anyone with physical access to your iPhone can read the information you include in your emergency medical ID. Set up your medical ID. In the Health app, tap Medical ID in the bottom right of the screen. View your ID. When you wake iPhone, slide to the passcode screen, then tap Emergency. Prevent viewing. Tap Medical ID, tap Edit, then turn off Show When Locked. 26 131 Passbook Passbook at a glance Use Passbook to keep your boarding passes, movie tickets, coupons, loyalty cards, and more, all in one place. Scan a pass on iPhone to check in for a flight, get in to a movie, or redeem a coupon. Passes can include useful information, such as the balance on your coffee card, a coupon’s expiration date, or your seat number for a concert. With iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus, you can add credit and debit cards to Passbook and use them to make purchases in stores that accept contactless payments, and within apps that support Apple Pay (not available in all areas). See Apple Pay on page 132. Tap a pass to view it. Tap a pass to view it. Tap to add a credit or debit card. Tap to add a credit or debit card. Tap to add a pass. Tap to add a pass. Tap a credit or debit card to view it. Tap a credit or debit card to view it. Passbook on the go Find apps that support Passbook. Tap Apps for Passbook on the Welcome pass. Or, on your computer, go to www.itunes.com/passbookapps/. You can add a pass from an app, an email or a Messages message, or a website when you make a purchase or receive a coupon or gift. Usually, you tap or click the pass or the link to a pass to add it to Passbook. You can also scan codes, which are then downloaded to Passbook, from merchants’ ads or receipts. Chapter 26 Passbook 132 Scan a code. Tap , then tap Scan Code. Point your iPhone at the code and frame it to add the pass. Tap to view scanning options. Tap to view scanning options. Use a pass. If an alert for a pass appears on the Lock screen, slide the alert to display the pass. Or open Passbook, select the pass, then present the barcode on the pass to the scanner. Share a pass. You can share a pass using Mail, Messages, or AirDrop (iPhone 5 or later). See Share from apps on page 37. Display a pass based on location. A pass can appear on the Lock screen when you wake iPhone at the right time or place—for example, when you reach the airport for a flight you’re taking. Location Services must be turned on in Settings > Privacy > Location Services. Rearrange passes. Drag a pass in the stack to move it to a new location. The pass order is updated on all your iOS 7 or later devices. Refresh a pass. Passes are usually updated automatically. To refresh a pass manually, tap the pass, tap , then pull the pass downward. Use iTunes Pass. You can add an iTunes Pass to Passbook, which makes it easy to add money to your Apple ID so you can make purchases from the iTunes Store, App Store, and iBooks Store without using a credit or debit card. To add your iTunes Pass in App Store, tap Featured, scroll to the bottom, tap Redeem, then tap Get Started under iTunes Pass. You can add money to your iTunes Pass at Apple Retail Stores in most countries. Done with a pass? Tap the pass, tap , then tap Delete. Apple Pay With iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus, you can use Apple Pay (not available in all areas). With Apple Pay, you can keep up to eight credit and debit cards available for making contactless payments in stores, and for making payments within apps that support Apple Pay. (Apps supporting Apple Pay sell physical goods and services such as clothing, electronics, health and beauty products, tickets, reservations, and more.) Credit cards and debit cards appear at the top of your Passbook stack, above your passes. The last four or five digits of your credit or debit card number appear on both the front and the back of a payment card. The front of a card also shows your most recent activity. The back also shows the last four or five digits of the Device Account Number—the number transmitted to stores and apps for the purchase—and may also display up to 10 recent authorizations and other Apple Pay activity such as payment refunds. (Apple Pay activity is included on your credit and debit card statements.) Use your card on file with iTunes. The first time you add a credit or debit card to Passbook, you may be prompted to use the card you use with iTunes (unless it’s the card designated for Family Sharing purchases, and you aren’t the primary cardholder—see Family Sharing on page 38). Next to Apple Pay, tap , then tap Next on the screen that follows. You are presented with the last four digits of the card on file. Enter the security code for the card, then tap Next to verify your card. Chapter 26 Passbook 133 Add a credit or debit card. Next to Apple Pay, tap , then tap Next on the screen that follows. Then, position iPhone so that your card appears in the frame. Card details are added automatically, but you may be prompted for additional information. Note:  The card issuer determines if your card is eligible to use with Apple Pay, and may ask you to provide additional information to complete the verification process. Many U.S. credit and debit cards can be used with Apple Pay. For information about Apple Pay availability and current card issuers, go to support.apple.com/kb/HT6288. Tap to add a credit or debit card (on iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus). Tap to add a credit or debit card (on iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus). Tap to scan a code. Tap to scan a code. Open App Store to download supported apps. Open App Store to download supported apps. Set your default card. The first card you add to Passbook becomes your default card for payments. To use a different card as your default, make the change in Settings > Passbook & Apple Pay > Default Card. Pay at a contactless card reader. Contactless card readers, marked with the following symbols, are usually located near cash registers. To pay with your default card, hold iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus with your finger on Touch ID about an inch (or 2.5 cm) away from the symbol on the reader, until iPhone vibrates. You see the card onscreen with a Done checkmark when the card information has been transmitted to the merchant. Or you can start by holding iPhone near a reader until the screen asks you to authenticate with Touch ID or your passcode. After you authenticate, hold iPhone near the reader again until it vibrates and you see the Done checkmark. Note:  If you have Location Services turned on, the location of your iPhone at the time you make a purchase may be sent to Apple. See Privacy on page 43. Chapter 26 Passbook 134 Use another card. Hold iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus near the reader until your default card appears. Tap the card to reveal all your cards in Passbook, tap the card you want to use, then place your finger on Touch ID and hold iPhone near the reader until you feel it vibrate and see the Done checkmark, indicating that the card information has been transmitted to the merchant. Pay within an app. Make your selections for goods or services within an app. When checking out, look for the Apple Pay payment option. Tap Apple Pay, then review the information that appears (for example, the card you’re using for the payment, your email, and the shipping method). Make any changes before using Touch ID or your passcode to complete the payment. Activity details appear on the front of the credit card used for the purchase. In addition, you may receive a notification with the merchant name, and the amount authorized for the purchase. Your zip code may be provided to the merchant to calculate tax and shipping costs. Payment information—such as billing and shipping addresses, email address, and phone number—may also be provided to the merchant once you authorize the payment with Touch ID or a passcode. Note:  The authorized amount may be different from the amount of the payment charged to your account. For example, a gas station may authorize $99, even though you only pump $25 worth of gasoline. Always check your credit or debit card statement for the actual charges. View your recent credit card activity. Tap a credit card. Your most recent activity may appear on the front. Tap to view a list of your recent activity on the back of the card. Suspend and remove cards. You have several options for suspending or removing credit and debit cards. To remove a credit or debit card from Passbook, tap the card, tap , then tap Remove. To remove an inactive card, tap Remove on the front of the card. If your iPhone is lost or stolen and you have enabled Find My iPhone, you can use it to help you locate and secure your iPhone—including suspending or removing the ability to pay using your credit and debit cards in Passbook. See Find My iPhone on page 46. You can log in to your account at iCloud.com and remove your cards in Settings > My Devices. You can also call the issuers of your cards. Chapter 26 Passbook 135 Passbook & Apple Pay settings Add and manage credit and debit cards. (iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus) To add credit or debit cards, manage existing cards, change the default payment card, modify the shipping addresses used for Apple Pay purchases, phone number, or change contact information for purchases, go to Settings > Passbook & Apple Pay. Change billing information. Tap a credit or debit card, tap , then tap the billing address to make changes. Tap Enter a New Billing Address to add a new one. Keep passes from appearing on the Lock screen. Go to Settings > Touch ID & Passcode (iPhone models with Touch ID) or Settings > Passcode (other models), then tap Turn Passcode On. Then, under Allow Access When Locked, turn off Passbook. For passes with notifications, to keep a specific pass from appearing on the Lock screen, tap the pass, tap , then turn off Show On Lock Screen. Set notification options. Go to Settings > Notifications > Passbook. Include passes on your other iOS devices. Go to Settings > iCloud, then turn on Passbook. Note:  This setting applies only to the passes in Passbook, not to the credit or debit cards. 27 136 FaceTime FaceTime at a glance Use FaceTime to make video or audio calls to other iOS devices or computers that support FaceTime. The FaceTime camera lets you talk face-to-face; switch to the rear iSight camera (not available on all models) to share what you see around you. Note:  FaceTime may not be available in all areas. Mute your mic (the caller can see but not hear you). Mute your mic (the caller can see but not hear you). Switch to the rear camera (available on some models). Switch to the rear camera (available on some models). Drag your image to any corner. Drag your image to any corner. With a Wi-Fi connection and an Apple ID, you can make and receive FaceTime calls (first sign in using your Apple ID, or create a new account). You can also make FaceTime calls over a cellular data connection, which may incur additional charges. To turn off this feature, go to Settings > Cellular. For more information about cellular usage and settings, see Cellular settings on page 190. Make and answer calls Make a FaceTime call. Make sure FaceTime is turned on in Settings > FaceTime. Tap FaceTime, then type the name or number you want to call in the entry field at the top. Tap to make a video call, or tap to make a FaceTime audio call. Or tap to open Contacts and start your call from there. Tap an icon to start a FaceTime call. Tap an icon to start a FaceTime call. Chapter 27 FaceTime 137 Use your voice to start the call. Press and hold the Home button, then say “FaceTime,” followed by the name of the person to call. Want to call again? Tap FaceTime to see your call history on the screen. Tap Audio or Video to refine your search, then tap a name or number to call again. Tap to open the name or number in Contacts. Delete a call from call history. Tap FaceTime to see your call history on the screen. Swipe to the left, then tap Delete to delete the name or number from your call history. Can’t take a call right now? When a FaceTime call comes in, you can answer, decline, or choose another option. Use Siri. Say, for example, “Make a FaceTime call.” Set up a reminder to return the call later. Set up a reminder to return the call later. Send the caller a text message. Send the caller a text message. See the whole gang. Rotate iPhone to use FaceTime in landscape orientation. To avoid unwanted orientation changes, lock iPhone in portrait orientation. See Change the screen orientation on page 25. Manage calls Multitask during a call. Press the Home button, then tap an app icon. You can still talk with your friend, but you can’t see each other. To return to the video, tap the green bar at the top of the screen. Juggle calls. FaceTime calls aren’t forwarded. If another call comes in while you’re on a FaceTime call, you can either end the first call and answer the incoming call, decline the incoming call, or reply with a text message. You can use call waiting with FaceTime audio calls only. Use call waiting for audio calls. If you’re on a FaceTime audio call and another call comes in— either a phone call or another FaceTime audio call—you can decline the call, end the first call and accept the new one, or put the first call on hold and respond to the new call. Block unwanted callers. Go to Settings > FaceTime > Blocked > Add New. You won’t receive voice calls, FaceTime calls, or text messages from blocked callers. For more information about blocking calls, see support.apple.com/kb/HT5845. Settings Go to Settings > FaceTime, where you can: • Turn FaceTime on or off • Specify a phone number, Apple ID, or email address to use with FaceTime • Set your caller ID 28 138 Calculator Tap numbers and functions in Calculator, just as you would with a standard calculator. Get to Calculator quickly! Swipe up from the bottom edge of the screen to open Control Center. Clear the display. Clear the display. To use the scientific calculator, rotate iPhone to landscape orientation. 29 139 Podcasts Podcasts at a glance Open the Podcasts app, then browse, subscribe to, and play your favorite audio or video podcasts on iPhone. See your subscriptions and downloaded podcasts. See your subscriptions and downloaded podcasts. Delete or rearrange podcasts. Delete or rearrange podcasts. Tap a podcast to view and play episodes. Tap a podcast to view and play episodes. Organize and automatically update your favorites. Organize and automatically update your favorites. Browse for podcasts. Browse for podcasts. New episodes New episodes Chapter 29 Podcasts 140 Get podcasts and episodes Discover more podcasts. Tap Featured or Top Charts at the bottom of the screen. Search for new podcasts. Tap Search at the bottom of the screen. Search your library. Tap My Podcasts, then drag down the center of the screen to reveal the Search field. Preview or stream an episode. Tap the podcast, then tap an episode. Pull down to see Edit, Settings, and Share options. Pull down to see Edit, Settings, and Share options. View unplayed episodes. View unplayed episodes. View available episodes. View available episodes. Get more info. Tap to get episode details. Tap any link in podcast or episode descriptions to open them in Safari. Find new episodes. Tap Unplayed to find episodes you haven’t yet heard. Browse episodes. Tap Feed to see episodes available to download or stream. Download an episode to iPhone. Tap next to the episode. Get new episodes as they’re released. Subscribe to the podcast. If you’re browsing Featured podcasts or Top Charts, tap the podcast, then tap Subscribe. If you’ve already downloaded episodes, tap My Podcasts, tap the podcast, tap Settings at the top of the episode list, then turn on Subscription. Save episodes. Tap next to an episode, then tap Save Episode. Tap Delete Download to delete a saved episode. Chapter 29 Podcasts 141 Control playback Use the playback controls to go forward and back in a podcast, set the speed, skip episodes, and more. See a list of episodes. See a list of episodes. Tap to see more info. Tap to see more info. Drag to skip forward or back. Drag to skip forward or back. Skip to the next episode. Skip to the next episode. Tap to speed up or slow down. Tap to speed up Tap to start over, or or slow down. double-tap to go to the previous episode. Tap to start over, or double-tap to go to the previous episode. See podcast info while you listen. Tap the podcast image on the Now Playing screen. Skip forward or back with greater accuracy. Move your finger toward the top of the screen as you drag the playhead left or right. When you’re close to the playback controls, you can scan quickly through the entire episode. When you’re close to the top of the screen, you can scan one second at a time. Use Siri. Say something like: • “Play podcasts” • “Play it twice as fast” • “Skip ahead 10 seconds” Chapter 29 Podcasts 142 Organize your favorites into stations Organize your favorite podcasts into custom stations, and update episodes automatically across all your devices. Organize selected podcasts and episodes into stations. Organize selected podcasts and episodes into stations. Tap a station to choose episodes or change settings. Tap a station to choose episodes or change settings. Tap to play the latest episode. Tap to play the latest episode. Delete or rearrange stations. Delete or rearrange stations. Pull together episodes from different podcasts. To add episodes to your On-The-Go station, tap My Stations, tap On-The-Go, then tap Add. Or tap next to any episode in your library. You can also touch and hold any episode, then tap Add to On-The-Go. Create a station. Tap My Stations, then tap . Change the order of the station list or the podcasts in a station. Tap My Stations, tap Edit above the station list or the episode list, then drag up or down. Change the playback order for episodes in a station. Tap the station, then tap Settings. Rearrange your podcast library. Tap My Podcasts, tap list view in the upper right, tap Edit, then drag up or down. List oldest episodes first. Tap My Podcasts, tap a podcast, then tap Settings. Play podcasts from the station list. Tap next to the station name. Podcasts settings Go to Settings > Podcasts, where you can: • Choose to keep your podcast subscriptions up to date on all your devices • Choose how frequently Podcasts checks your subscriptions for new episodes • Have episodes downloaded automatically • Choose whether to keep episodes after you finish them 30 143 Compass Compass at a glance Find a direction, see your latitude and longitude, find level, or match a slope. Swipe left to use the level. Swipe left to use the level. Current location Current location Align the crosshairs to level for accuracy. Align the crosshairs to level for accuracy. Tap anywhere to lock the heading. Tap anywhere to lock the heading. Deviation from the locked heading Deviation from the locked heading The direction iPhone is pointing The direction iPhone is pointing See your location. To see your current location, go to Settings > Privacy > Location Services, then turn on Location Services and Compass. For more about Location Services, see Privacy on page 43. Stay on course. Tap the screen to lock in the current heading, then watch for a red band to see if you’re off course. Important:  The accuracy of the compass can be affected by magnetic or environmental interference; even the magnets in the iPhone earbuds can cause a deviation. Use the digital compass only for basic navigation assistance. Don’t rely on it to determine precise location, proximity, distance, or direction. Chapter 30 Compass 144 On the level On an edge ... On an edge ... ... or lying flat ... or lying flat Deviation from level Deviation from level Level! Level! Deviation from chosen slope Deviation from chosen slope Show the level. Swipe left on the Compass screen. Hang it straight. Hold iPhone against a picture frame or other object, then rotate them until you see green. For true level, the deviation is displayed on a black background. If the background is red (indicating relative slope), tap the screen to change it to black. Level the table. Lay iPhone flat on the table. Match that slope. Hold iPhone against the surface you want to match, then tap the screen to capture the slope. The slope you seek is shown in black, with deviation shown in red. Tap again to return to standard level. 31 145 Voice Memos Voice Memos at a glance Voice Memos lets you use iPhone as a portable recording device. Use it with the built-in microphone, an iPhone or Bluetooth headset mic, or a supported external microphone. Drag recording level to position play/record head. Drag recording level to position play/record head. Record, pause, or resume. Record, pause, or resume. Trim the recording. Trim the recording. Switch playback between receiver and speaker. Switch playback between receiver and speaker. Save the recording. Save the recording. Your recordings Your recordings Listen before saving. Listen before saving. Record Make a recording. Tap or press the center button on your headset. Tap again to pause or resume. Recordings using the built-in microphone are mono, but you can record stereo using an external stereo microphone that works with the iPhone headset jack, or with the Lightning connector (iPhone 5 or later) or 30-pin dock connector (iPhone 4s). Look for accessories marked with the Apple “Made for iPhone” or “Works with iPhone” logo. Adjust the recording level. Move the microphone closer to what you’re recording. For better recording quality, the loudest level should be between –3 dB and 0 dB. Preview before saving. Tap to the left of the Record button. To position the play head, drag the recording level display left or right. Record over a section. Drag the recording level display to position the record/play head, then tap . Chapter 31 Voice Memos 146 Trim the excess. Tap , then drag the red trim handles. Tap to check your edit. Adjust the trim handles if necessary, then tap Trim when you’re finished. Save the recording. Tap Done. Mute the start and stop tones. Use the iPhone volume buttons to turn the volume all the way down. Multitask. To use another app while you’re recording, press the Home button, then open the other app. To return to Voice Memos, tap the red bar at the top of the screen. Play it back Trim or rename the recording. Trim or rename the recording. Listen to the recording. Listen to the recording. Tap a recording to play or edit it. Tap a recording to play or edit it. Drag to skip ahead or rewind. Drag to skip ahead or rewind. Rename a recording. Tap the name of the recording. Move recordings to your computer You can sync voice memos with the iTunes library on your computer, then listen to them on your computer or sync them with another iPhone or iPod touch. When you delete a synced voice memo from iTunes, it stays on the device where it was recorded, but is deleted from any other iPhone or iPod touch you synced. If you delete a synced voice memo on iPhone, it’s copied back to iPhone the next time you sync with iTunes, but you can’t sync that copy back to iTunes a second time. Sync voice memos with iTunes. Connect iPhone to your computer. Open iTunes on your computer, then select iPhone. Select Music at the top of the screen (between Apps and Movies), select Sync Music, select “Include voice memos,” then click Apply. Voice memos synced from iPhone to your computer appear in the Music list and in the Voice Memos playlist in iTunes. Voice memos synced from your computer appear in the Voice Memos app on iPhone, but not in the Music app. 32 147 Contacts Contacts at a glance iPhone lets you access and edit your contact lists from personal, business, and other accounts. Open in Mail. Open in Mail. Dial a number. Dial a number. Open in Messages. Open in Messages. Set your My Info card for Safari, Siri, and other apps. Go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars, tap My Info, then select the contact card with your name and information. Let Siri know who’s who. On your contact card, tap Add Related Name to define relationships you want Siri to know about, so you can say things like “send a message to my sister.” Use Siri. Say, for example, “Sarah Castelblanco is my sister.” Find a contact. Tap the search field at the top of the contacts list, then enter your search. You can also search your contacts using Spotlight Search (see Spotlight Search on page 34). Use Siri. Say, for example, “What’s my brother’s work address?” Share a contact. Tap a contact, then tap Share Contact. See Share from apps on page 37. Change a label. If a field has the wrong label, such as Home instead of Work, tap Edit. Then tap the label and choose one from the list, or tap Add Custom Label to create one of your own. Add your friends’ social profiles. While viewing a contact, tap Edit, then tap “add social profile.” You can add Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, Flickr, Myspace, and Sina Weibo accounts, or create a custom entry. Delete a contact. Go to the contact’s card, then tap Edit. Scroll down, then tap Delete Contact. Chapter 32 Contacts 148 Use Contacts with Phone Prioritize your contacts. When you add someone to your Favorites list, their calls bypass Do Not Disturb and are added to your Favorites list in Phone for quick dialing. Choose a contact, then scroll down and tap Add to Favorites. Save the number you just dialed. In Phone, tap Keypad, enter a number, then tap Add to Contacts. Tap Create New Contact, or tap Add to Existing Contact, then choose a contact. Add a recent caller to Contacts. In Phone, tap Recents, then tap next to the number. Then tap Create New Contact, or tap Add to Existing Contact and choose a contact. Automate dialing an extension or passcode. If the number you’re calling requires dialing an extension, iPhone can enter it for you. When editing a contact’s phone number, tap to enter pauses in the dialing sequence. Tap Pause to enter a two-second pause, which is represented by a comma. Tap Wait to stop dialing until you tap Dial again, which is represented by a semicolon. Add contacts Besides entering contacts, you can: • Use your iCloud contacts:  Go to Settings > iCloud, then turn on Contacts. • Import your Facebook Friends:  Go to Settings > Facebook, then turn on Contacts in the “Allow These Apps to Use Your Accounts” list. This creates a Facebook group in Contacts. • Use your Google contacts: Go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars, tap your Google account, then turn on Contacts. • Access a Microsoft Exchange Global Address List:  Go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars, tap your Exchange account, then turn on Contacts. • Set up an LDAP or CardDAV account to access business or school directories:  Go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars > Add Account > Other. Tap Add LDAP account or Add CardDAV account, then enter the account information. • Sync contacts from your computer:  In iTunes on your computer, turn on contact syncing in the device info pane. For information, see iTunes Help. • Import contacts from a SIM card (GSM):  Go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars > Import SIM Contacts. • Import contacts from a vCard:  Tap a .vcf attachment in an email or message. Search a directory. Tap Groups, tap the GAL, CardDAV, or LDAP directory you want to search, then enter your search. To save a person’s info to your contacts, tap Add Contact. Show or hide a group. Tap Groups, then select the groups you want to see. This button appears only if you have more than one source of contacts. Update your contacts using Twitter, Facebook, and Sina Weibo. Go to Settings > Twitter, Settings > Facebook, or Settings > Sina Weibo, then tap Update Contacts. This updates contact photos and social media account names in Contacts. Chapter 32 Contacts 149 Unify contacts When you have contacts from multiple sources, you might have multiple entries for the same person. To keep redundant contacts from appearing in your All Contacts list, contacts from different sources that have the same name are linked and displayed as a single unified contact. When you view a unified contact, the title Unified Info appears. Link contacts. If two entries for the same person aren’t linked automatically, you can unify them manually. Edit one of the contacts, tap Edit, tap Link Contact, then choose the other contact entry to link to. Linked contacts aren’t merged. If you change or add information in a unified contact, the changes are copied to each source account where that information already exists. If you link contacts with different first or last names, the names on the individual cards won’t change, but only one name appears on the unified card. To choose which name appears when you view the unified card, tap Edit, tap the linked card with the name you prefer, then tap Use This Name For Unified Card. Contacts settings Go to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars, where you can: • Change how contacts are sorted • Display contacts by first or last name • Change how long names are shortened in lists • Choose to show recent and favorite contacts in the multitasking screen • Set a default account for new contacts • Set your My Info card A 150 Accessibility Accessibility features iPhone offers many accessibility features: Vision • VoiceOver • Support for braille displays • Zoom • Invert Colors and Grayscale • Speak Selection • Speak Screen • Speak Auto-text • Large, bold, and high-contrast text • Button Shapes • Reduce screen motion • On/off switch labels • Assignable ringtones and vibrations • Video Descriptions Hearing • Hearing aids • Call audio routing • Phone noise cancelation • LED Flash for Alerts • Subtitles and closed captions • Mono audio and balance Interaction • Siri • Widescreen keyboards • Guided Access • Switch Control • AssistiveTouch Turn on accessibility features. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility, or use the Accessibility Shortcut. See Accessibility Shortcut below. With your voice, you can also use Siri to open apps, invert colors, read the screen in some apps, and work with VoiceOver. See Chapter 4, Siri, on page 48. Appendix Appendix A Accessibility 151 Use iTunes on your computer to configure accessibility on iPhone. You can choose some accessibility options in iTunes on your computer. Connect iPhone to your computer, then select iPhone in the iTunes device list. Click Summary, then click Configure Accessibility at the bottom of the Summary screen. For more information about iPhone accessibility features, see www.apple.com/accessibility/. Accessibility Shortcut Use the Accessibility Shortcut. Press the Home button quickly three times to turn any of these features on or off: • VoiceOver • Invert Colors • Grayscale • Zoom • Switch Control • AssistiveTouch • Guided Access (The shortcut starts Guided Access if it’s already turned on. See Guided Access on page 168.) • Hearing Aid Control (if you have paired Made for iPhone hearing aids) Choose the features you want to control. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Accessibility Shortcut, then select the accessibility features you use. Not so fast. To slow down the triple-click speed, go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Home-click Speed. (This also slows down double-clicks.) VoiceOver VoiceOver describes aloud what appears onscreen, so you can use iPhone without seeing it. VoiceOver tells you about each item on the screen as you select it. The VoiceOver cursor (a rectangle) encloses the item and VoiceOver speaks its name or describes it. Touch the screen or drag your finger over it to hear the items on the screen. When you select text, VoiceOver reads the text. If you turn on Speak Hints, VoiceOver may tell you the name of the item and provide instructions—for example, “double-tap to open.” To interact with items, such as buttons and links, use the gestures described in Learn VoiceOver gestures on page 154. When you go to a new screen, VoiceOver plays a sound, then selects and speaks the first item on the screen (typically in the upper-left corner). VoiceOver also lets you know when the display changes to landscape or portrait orientation, and when the screen becomes dimmed or locked. Note:  VoiceOver speaks in the language specified in Settings > General > Language & Region. VoiceOver is available in many languages, but not all. VoiceOver basics Important:  VoiceOver changes the gestures you use to control iPhone. When VoiceOver is on, you must use VoiceOver gestures to operate iPhone—even to turn VoiceOver off. Turn VoiceOver on or off. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver, or use the Accessibility Shortcut. See Accessibility Shortcut above. Appendix A Accessibility 152 Use Siri. Say: • “Turn VoiceOver on” • “Turn VoiceOver off” Explore. Drag your finger over the screen. VoiceOver speaks each item you touch. Lift your finger to leave an item selected. • Select an item: Tap it, or lift your finger while dragging over it. • Select the next or previous item: Swipe right or left with one finger. Item order is left-to-right, top-to-bottom. • Select the item above or below: Set the rotor to Vertical Navigation, then swipe up or down with one finger. If you don’t find Vertical Navigation in the rotor, you can add it; see Use the VoiceOver rotor on page 155. • Select the first or last item on the screen: Tap with four fingers at the top or bottom of the screen. • Select an item by name: Triple-tap with two fingers anywhere on the screen to open the Item Chooser. Then type a name in the search field, or swipe right or left to move through the list alphabetically, or tap the table index to the right of the list and swipe up or down to move quickly through the list of items. You can also use handwriting to select an item by writing its name; see Write with your finger on page 157. To dismiss the Item Chooser without making a selection, do a two-finger scrub (move two fingers back and forth three times quickly, making a “z”). • Change an item’s name so it’s easier to find: Select the item, then double-tap and hold with two fingers anywhere on the screen. • Speak the text of the selected item: Set the rotor to characters or words, then swipe down or up with one finger. • Turn spoken hints on or off: Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Speak Hints. • Use phonetic spelling: Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Phonetic Feedback. • Speak the entire screen, from the top: Swipe up with two fingers. • Speak from the current item to the bottom of the screen: Swipe down with two fingers. • Pause speaking: Tap once with two fingers. Tap again with two fingers to resume, or select another item. • Mute VoiceOver: Double-tap with three fingers; repeat to unmute. If you’re using an external keyboard, press the Control key. • Silence sound effects: Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver, then turn off Use Sound Effects. Use a larger VoiceOver cursor. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver, then turn on Large Cursor. Adjust the speaking voice. You can adjust the VoiceOver speaking voice: • Change the volume: Use the volume buttons on iPhone. You can also add volume to the rotor, then swipe up and down to adjust; see Use the VoiceOver rotor on page 155. • Change the speech rate: Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver, then drag the Speaking Rate slider. You can also set the rotor to Speech Rate, then swipe up or down to adjust. • Use pitch change: VoiceOver uses a higher pitch when speaking the first item of a group (such as a list or table) and a lower pitch when speaking the last item of a group. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Use Pitch Change. Appendix A Accessibility 153 • Speak punctuation: Set the rotor to Punctuation, then swipe up or down to select how much you want to hear. • Control audio ducking: To choose whether audio that’s playing is turned down while VoiceOver speaks, set the rotor to Audio Ducking, then swipe up or down. • Change the language for iPhone: Go to Settings > General > Language & Region. VoiceOver pronunciation of some languages is affected by the Region Format you choose there. • Change pronunciation: Set the rotor to Language, then swipe up or down. Language is available in the rotor only if you select more than one pronunciation in Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Speech > Rotor Languages. • Choose which dialects are available in the rotor: Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Speech > Rotor Languages. To adjust voice quality or speaking rate, tap next to the language. To remove languages from the rotor or change their order, tap Edit, tap the delete button or drag up or down, then tap Done. • Set the default dialect for the current iPhone language: Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Speech. • Download an enhanced quality reading voice: Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Speech, tap a language, then tap Enhanced Quality. If you’re using English, you can choose to download Alex (869 MB), the same high-quality U.S. English voice used for VoiceOver on Mac computers. Use iPhone with VoiceOver Unlock iPhone. Press either the Home button or the Sleep/Wake button, swipe to select the Unlock button, then double-tap the screen. Enter your passcode silently. To avoid having your passcode spoken as you enter it, use handwriting; see Write with your finger on page 157. Open an app, toggle a switch, or tap an item. Select the item, then double-tap the screen. Double-tap the selected item. Triple-tap the screen. Adjust a slider. Select the slider, then swipe up or down with one finger. Use a standard gesture. Double-tap and hold your finger on the screen until you hear three rising tones, then make the gesture. When you lift your finger, VoiceOver gestures resume. For example, to drag a volume slider with your finger instead of swiping up and down, select the slider, double-tap and hold, wait for the three tones, then slide left or right. Scroll a list or area of the screen. Swipe up or down with three fingers. • Scroll continuously through a list: Double-tap and hold until you hear three rising tones, then drag up or down. • Use the list index: Some lists have an alphabetical table index along the right side. Select the index, then swipe up or down to move through the index. You can also double-tap, hold, then slide your finger up or down. • Reorder a list: You can change the order of items in some lists, such as the Rotor items in Accessibility settings. Select to the right of an item, double-tap and hold until you hear three rising tones, then drag up or down. Open Notification Center. Select any item in the status bar, then swipe down with three fingers. To dismiss Notification Center, do a two-finger scrub (move two fingers back and forth three times quickly, making a “z”). Appendix A Accessibility 154 Open Control Center. Select any item in the status bar, then swipe up with three fingers. To dismiss Control Center, do a two-finger scrub. Switch apps. Double-click the Home button to see open apps, swipe left or right with one finger to select an app, then double-tap to switch to it. Or, set the rotor to Actions while viewing open apps, then swipe up or down. Rearrange your Home screen. Select an icon on the Home screen, double-tap and hold, then drag. Lift your finger when the icon is in its new location. Drag an icon to the edge of the screen to move it to another Home screen. You can continue to select and move items until you press the Home button. Speak iPhone status information. Tap the status bar at the top of the screen, then swipe left or right to hear information about the time, battery state, Wi-Fi signal strength, and more. Speak notifications. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver, then turn on Always Speak Notifications. Notifications, including the text of incoming text messages, are spoken as they occur, even if iPhone is locked. Unacknowledged notifications are repeated when you unlock iPhone. Turn the screen curtain on or off. Triple-tap with three fingers. When the screen curtain is on, the screen contents are active even though the display is turned off. Learn VoiceOver gestures When VoiceOver is on, standard touchscreen gestures have different effects, and additional gestures let you move around the screen and control individual items. VoiceOver gestures include two-, three-, and four-finger taps and swipes. For best results using multi-finger gestures, relax and let your fingers touch the screen with some space between them. You can use different techniques to perform VoiceOver gestures. For example, you can perform a two-finger tap using two fingers on one hand, or one finger on each hand. You can even use your thumbs. Some people use a split-tap gesture: instead of selecting an item and doubletapping, touch and hold an item with one finger, then tap the screen with another finger. Try different techniques to discover which works best for you. If a gesture doesn’t work, try a quicker movement, especially for a double-tap or swipe gesture. To swipe, try brushing the screen quickly with your finger or fingers. In VoiceOver settings, you can enter a special area where you can practice VoiceOver gestures without affecting iPhone or its settings. Practice VoiceOver gestures. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver, then tap VoiceOver Practice. When you finish practicing, tap Done. If you don’t see the VoiceOver Practice button, make sure VoiceOver is turned on. Here are some key VoiceOver gestures: Navigate and read • Tap: Select and speak the item. • Swipe right or left: Select the next or previous item. • Swipe up or down: Depends on the rotor setting. See Use the VoiceOver rotor on page 155. • Two-finger swipe up: Read all from the top of the screen. • Two-finger swipe down: Read all from the current position. • Two-finger tap: Stop or resume speaking. Appendix A Accessibility 155 • Two-finger scrub: Move two fingers back and forth three times quickly (making a “z”) to dismiss an alert or go back to the previous screen. • Three-finger swipe up or down: Scroll one page at a time. • Three-finger swipe right or left: Go to the next or previous page (on the Home screen, for example). • Three-finger tap: Speak additional information, such as position within a list or whether text is selected. • Four-finger tap at top of screen: Select the first item on the page. • Four-finger tap at bottom of screen: Select the last item on the page. Activate • Double-tap: Activate the selected item. • Triple-tap: Double-tap an item. • Split-tap: As an alternative to selecting an item and double-tapping to activate it, touch an item with one finger, then tap the screen with another. • Double-tap and hold (1 second) + standard gesture: Use a standard gesture. The double-tap and hold gesture tells iPhone to interpret the next gesture as standard. For example, you can double-tap and hold, and then without lifting your finger, drag your finger to slide a switch. • Two-finger double-tap: Answer or end a call. Play or pause in Music, Videos, Voice Memos, or Photos. Take a photo in Camera. Start or pause recording in Camera or Voice Memos. Start or stop the stopwatch. • Two-finger double-tap and hold: Change an item’s label to make it easier to find. • Two-finger triple-tap: Open the Item Chooser. • Three-finger double-tap: Mute or unmute VoiceOver. • Three-finger triple-tap: Turn the screen curtain on or off. Use the VoiceOver rotor Use the rotor to choose what happens when you swipe up or down with VoiceOver turned on, or to select special input methods such as Braille Screen Input or Handwriting. Operate the rotor. Rotate two fingers on the screen around a point between them. Choose your rotor options. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Rotor, then select the options you want to include in the rotor. The available rotor options and their effects depend on what you’re doing. For example, if you’re reading an email, you can use the rotor to switch between hearing text spoken word-by-word or character-by-character when you swipe up or down. If you’re browsing a webpage, you can set the rotor to speak all the text (either word-by-word or character-by-character), or to jump from one item to another of a certain type, such as headers or links. When you use an Apple Wireless Keyboard to control VoiceOver, the rotor lets you adjust settings such as volume, speech rate, use of pitch or phonetics, typing echo, and reading of punctuation. See Use VoiceOver with an Apple Wireless Keyboard on page 158. Appendix A Accessibility 156 Use the onscreen keyboard When you activate an editable text field, the onscreen keyboard appears (unless you have an Apple Wireless Keyboard attached). Activate a text field. Select the text field, then double-tap. The insertion point and the onscreen keyboard appear. Enter text. Type characters using the onscreen keyboard: • Standard typing: Select a key on the keyboard by swiping left or right, then double-tap to enter the character. Or move your finger around the keyboard to select a key and, while continuing to touch the key with one finger, tap the screen with another finger. VoiceOver speaks the key when it’s selected, and again when the character is entered. • Touch typing: Touch a key on the keyboard to select it, then lift your finger to enter the character. If you touch the wrong key, slide your finger to the key you want. VoiceOver speaks the character for each key as you touch it, but doesn’t enter a character until you lift your finger. • Direct Touch typing: VoiceOver is disabled for the keyboard only, so you can type just as you do when VoiceOver is off. • Choose typing style: Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Typing Style. Or, set the rotor to Typing Mode, then swipe up or down. Move the insertion point. Swipe up or down to move the insertion point forward or backward in the text. Use the rotor to choose whether you want to move the insertion point by character, by word, or by line. To jump to the beginning or end, double-tap the text. VoiceOver makes a sound when the insertion point moves, and speaks the character, word, or line that the insertion point moves across. When moving forward by words, the insertion point is placed at the end of each word, before the space or punctuation that follows. When moving backward, the insertion point is placed at the end of the preceding word, before the space or punctuation that follows it. Move the insertion point past the punctuation at the end of a word or sentence. Use the rotor to switch back to character mode. When moving the insertion point by line, VoiceOver speaks each line as you move across it. When moving forward, the insertion point is placed at the beginning of the next line (except when you reach the last line of a paragraph, when the insertion point is moved to the end of the line just spoken). When moving backward, the insertion point is placed at the beginning of the line that’s spoken. Change typing feedback. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Typing Feedback. Use phonetics in typing feedback. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Phonetic Feedback. Text is read character by character. VoiceOver first speaks the character, then its phonetic equivalent—for example, “f” and then “foxtrot.” Delete a character. Use with any of the VoiceOver typing styles. VoiceOver speaks each character as it’s deleted. If Use Pitch Change is turned on, VoiceOver speaks deleted characters in a lower pitch. Select text. Set the rotor to Edit, swipe up or down to choose Select or Select All, then doubletap. If you choose Select, the word closest to the insertion point is selected when you doubletap. To increase or decrease the selection, do a two-finger scrub to dismiss the pop-up menu, then pinch. Appendix A Accessibility 157 Cut, copy, or paste. Set the rotor to Edit, select the text, swipe up or down to choose Cut, Copy, or Paste, then double-tap. Undo. Shake iPhone, swipe left or right to choose the action to undo, then double-tap. Enter an accented character. In standard typing style, select the plain character, then double-tap and hold until you hear a sound indicating alternate characters have appeared. Drag left or right to select and hear the choices. Release your finger to enter the current selection. In touch typing style, touch and hold a character until the alternate characters appear. Change the keyboard language. Set the rotor to Language, then swipe up or down. Choose “default language” to use the language specified in Language & Region settings. The Language rotor item appears only if you select more than one language in Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Speech. Write with your finger Handwriting mode lets you enter text by writing characters on the screen with your finger. In addition to normal text entry, use handwriting mode to enter your iPhone passcode silently or open apps from the Home screen. Enter handwriting mode. Use the rotor to select Handwriting. If Handwriting isn’t in the rotor, go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Rotor, then add it. Choose a character type. Swipe up or down with three fingers to choose lowercase, numbers, uppercase, or punctuation. Hear the currently selected character type. Tap with three fingers. Enter a character. Trace the character on the screen with your finger. Enter a space. Swipe right with two fingers. Go to a new line. Swipe right with three fingers. Delete the character before the insertion point. Swipe left with two fingers. Select an item on the Home screen. Start writing the name of the item. If there are multiple matches, continue to spell the name until it’s unique, or swipe up or down with two fingers to choose from the current matches. Enter your passcode silently. Set the rotor to Handwriting on the passcode screen, then write the characters of your passcode. Use a table index to skip through a long list. Select the table index to the right of the table (for example, next to your Contacts list or in the VoiceOver Item Chooser), then write the letter. Set the rotor to a web browsing element type. Write the first letter of a page element type. For example, write “l” to have up or down swipes skip to links, or “h” to skip to headings. Exit handwriting mode. Do a two-finger scrub, or turn the rotor to a different selection. Type onscreen braille With Braille Screen Input enabled, you can use your fingers to enter 6-dot or contracted braille codes directly on the iPhone screen. Tap codes with iPhone laying flat in front of you (tabletop mode), or hold iPhone with the screen facing away so your fingers curl back to tap the screen (screen away mode). Turn on Braille Screen Input. Use the rotor to select Braille Screen Input. If you don’t find it in the rotor, go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Rotor, then add it. Appendix A Accessibility 158 Enter braille codes. Place iPhone flat in front of you or hold it with the screen facing away, then tap the screen with one or several fingers at the same time. Adjust entry dot positions. To move the entry dots to match your natural finger positions, tap and lift your right three fingers all at once to position dots 4, 5, and 6, followed immediately by your left three fingers for dots 1, 2, and 3. Switch between 6-dot and contracted braille. Swipe to the right with three fingers. To set the default, go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Braille > Braille Screen Input. Enter a space. Swipe right with one finger. (In screen away mode, swipe to your right.) Delete the previous character. Swipe left with one finger. Move to a new line (typing). Swipe right with two fingers. Cycle through spelling suggestions. Swipe up or down with one finger. Select an item on the Home screen. Start entering the name of the item. If there are multiple matches, continue to spell the name until it is unique, or swipe up or down with one finger to select a partial match. Open the selected app. Swipe right with two fingers. Turn braille contractions on or off. Swipe to the right with three fingers. Translate immediately (when contractions are enabled). Swipe down with two fingers. Stop entering braille. Do a two-finger scrub, or set the rotor to another setting. Use VoiceOver with an Apple Wireless Keyboard You can control VoiceOver using an Apple Wireless Keyboard paired with iPhone. See Use an Apple Wireless Keyboard on page 32. Use VoiceOver keyboard commands to navigate the screen, select items, read screen contents, adjust the rotor, and perform other VoiceOver actions. Most commands use the Control-Option key combination, abbreviated in the list that follows as “VO.” You can use VoiceOver Help to learn the keyboard layout and the actions associated with various key combinations. VoiceOver Help speaks keys and keyboard commands as you type them, without performing the associated action. VoiceOver keyboard commands VO = Control-Option • Turn on VoiceOver Help: VO–K • Turn off VoiceOver Help: Escape • Select the next or previous item: VO–Right Arrow or VO–Left Arrow • Double-tap to activate the selected item: VO–Space bar • Press the Home button: VO–H • Touch and hold the selected item: VO–Shift–M • Move to the status bar: VO–M • Read from the current position: VO–A • Read from the top: VO–B • Pause or resume reading: Control • Copy the last spoken text to the clipboard: VO–Shift–C • Search for text: VO–F Appendix A Accessibility 159 • Mute or unmute VoiceOver: VO–S • Open Notification Center: Fn–VO–Up Arrow • Open Control Center: Fn–VO–Down Arrow • Open the Item Chooser: VO–I • Change the label of the selected item: VO–/ • Double-tap with two fingers: VO–”-” • Adjust the rotor: Use Quick Nav (see below) • Swipe up or down: VO–Up Arrow or VO–Down Arrow • Adjust the speech rotor: VO–Command–Left Arrow or VO–Command–Right Arrow • Adjust the setting specified by the speech rotor: VO–Command–Up Arrow or VO–Command– Down Arrow • Turn the screen curtain on or off: VO–Shift–S • Return to the previous screen: Escape • Switch apps: Command–Tab or Command–Shift–Tab Quick Nav Turn on Quick Nav to control VoiceOver using the arrow keys. • Turn Quick Nav on or off: Left Arrow–Right Arrow • Select the next or previous item: Right Arrow or Left Arrow • Select the next or previous item specified by the rotor: Up Arrow or Down Arrow • Select the first or last item: Control–Up Arrow or Control–Down Arrow • Tap an item: Up Arrow–Down Arrow • Scroll up, down, left, or right: Option–Up Arrow, Option–Down Arrow, Option–Left Arrow, or Option–Right Arrow • Adjust the rotor: Up Arrow–Left Arrow or Up Arrow–Right Arrow You can also use the number keys on an Apple Wireless Keyboard to dial a phone number in Phone or enter numbers in Calculator. Single-key Quick Nav for web browsing When you view a webpage with Quick Nav on, you can use the following keys on the keyboard to navigate the page quickly. Typing the key moves to the next item of the indicated type. To move to the previous item, hold the Shift key as you type the letter. • Turn on Single-key Quick Nav: VO-Q • Heading: H • Link: L • Text field: R • Button: B • Form control: C • Image: I • Table: T • Static text: S • ARIA landmark: W • List: X • Item of the same type: M Appendix A Accessibility 160 • Level 1 heading: 1 • Level 2 heading: 2 • Level 3 heading: 3 • Level 4 heading: 4 • Level 5 heading: 5 • Level 6 heading: 6 Text editing Use these commands (with Quick Nav turned off) to work with text. VoiceOver reads the text as you move the insertion point. • Go forward or back one character: Right Arrow or Left Arrow • Go forward or back one word: Option–Right Arrow or Option–Left Arrow • Go up or down one line: Up Arrow or Down Arrow • Go to the beginning or end of the line: Command–Left Arrow or Command–Down Arrow • Go to the beginning or end of the paragraph: Option–Up Arrow or Option–Down Arrow • Go to the previous or next paragraph: Option–Up Arrow or Option–Down Arrow • Go to the top or bottom of the text field: Command–Up Arrow or Command–Down Arrow • Select text as you move: Shift + any of the insertion point movement commands above • Select all text: Command–A • Copy, cut, or paste the selected text: Command–C, Command–X, or Command–V • Undo or redo last change: Command–Z or Shift–Command–Z Support for braille displays You can use a Bluetooth braille display to read VoiceOver output, and you can use a braille display with input keys and other controls to control iPhone when VoiceOver is turned on. For a list of supported braille displays, see www.apple.com/accessibility/ios/braille-display.html. Connect a braille display. Turn on the display, then go to Settings > Bluetooth and turn on Bluetooth. Then, go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Braille and choose the display. Adjust Braille settings. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Braille, where you can: • Choose contracted, uncontracted 8-dot, or uncontracted 6-dot braille input or output • Turn on the status cell and choose its location • Turn on Nemeth code for equations • Display the onscreen keyboard • Choose to have the page turned automatically when panning • Change the braille translation from Unified English For information about common braille commands for VoiceOver navigation, and for information specific to certain displays, see support.apple.com/kb/HT4400. Set the language for VoiceOver. Go to Settings > General > Language & Region. If you change the language for iPhone, you may need to reset the language for VoiceOver and your braille display. Appendix A Accessibility 161 You can set the leftmost or rightmost cell of your braille display to provide system status and other information. For example: • Announcement History contains an unread message • The current Announcement History message hasn’t been read • VoiceOver speech is muted • The iPhone battery is low (less than 20% charge) • iPhone is in landscape orientation • The screen display is turned off • The current line contains additional text to the left • The current line contains additional text to the right Set the leftmost or rightmost cell to display status information. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Braille > Status Cell, then tap Left or Right. See an expanded description of the status cell. On your braille display, press the status cell’s router button. Make phone calls with VoiceOver Answer or end a call. Double-tap the screen with two fingers. When a phone call is established with VoiceOver on, the screen displays the numeric keypad by default, instead of showing call options. Display call options. Select the Hide Keypad button in the lower-right corner and double-tap. Display the numeric keypad again. Select the Keypad button near the center of the screen and double-tap. Read math equations VoiceOver can read aloud math equations encoded using: • MathML on the web • MathML or LaTeX in iBooks Author Hear an equation. Have VoiceOver read the text as usual. VoiceOver says “math” before it starts reading an equation. Explore the equation. Double-tap the selected equation to display it full screen and move through it one element at a time. Swipe left or right to read elements of the equation. Use the rotor to select Symbols, Small Expressions, Medium Expressions, or Large Expressions, then swipe up or down to hear the next element of that size. You can continue to double-tap the selected element to “drill down” into the equation to focus on the selected element, then swipe left or right, up or down to read one part at a time. Equations read by VoiceOver can also be output to a braille device using Nemeth code, as well as the codes used by Unified English Braille, British English, French, and Greek. See Support for braille displays on page 160. Use VoiceOver with Safari Search the web. Select the search field, enter your search, then swipe right or left to move down or up the list of suggested search phrases. Then double-tap the screen to search the web using the selected phrase. Skip to the next page element of a particular type. Set the rotor to the element type, then swipe up or down. Appendix A Accessibility 162 Set the rotor options for web browsing. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Rotor. Tap to select or deselect options, or drag up or down to reposition an item. Skip images while navigating. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > VoiceOver > Navigate Images. You can choose to skip all images or only those without descriptions. Reduce page clutter for easier reading and navigation. Select the Reader item in the Safari address field (not available for all pages). If you pair an Apple Wireless Keyboard with iPhone, you can use single-key Quick Nav commands to navigate webpages. See Use VoiceOver with an Apple Wireless Keyboard on page 158. Use VoiceOver with Maps You can use VoiceOver to explore a region, browse points of interest, follow roads, zoom in or out, select a pin, or get information about a location. Explore the map. Drag your finger around the screen, or swipe left or right to move to another item. Zoom in or out. Select the map, set the rotor to Zoom, then swipe down or up with one finger. Pan the map. Swipe with three fingers. Browse visible points of interest. Set the rotor to Points of Interest, then swipe up or down with one finger. Follow a road. Hold your finger down on the road, wait until you hear “pause to follow,” then move your finger along the road while listening to the guide tone. The pitch increases when you stray from the road. Select a pin. Touch a pin, or swipe left or right to select the pin. Get information about a location. With a pin selected, double-tap to display the information flag. Swipe left or right to select the More Info button, then double-tap to display the information page. Hear location cues as you move about. Turn on Tracking With Heading in Maps to hear street names and points of interest as you approach them. Edit videos and voice memos with VoiceOver You can use VoiceOver gestures to trim Camera videos and Voice Memo recordings. Trim a video. While viewing a video in Photos, double-tap the screen to display the video controls, then select the beginning or end of the trim tool. Then swipe up to drag to the right, or swipe down to drag to the left. VoiceOver announces the amount of time the current position will trim from the recording. To complete the trim, select Trim, then double-tap. Trim a voice memo. Select the memo in Voice Memos, tap Edit, then tap Start Trimming. Select the beginning or end of the selection, double-tap and hold, then drag to adjust. VoiceOver announces the amount of time the current position will trim from the recording. Tap Play to preview the trimmed recording. When you’ve got it the way you want it, tap Trim. Zoom Many apps let you zoom in or out on specific items. For example, you can double-tap or pinch to look closer in Photos or expand webpage columns in Safari. There’s also a general Zoom feature that lets you magnify the screen no matter what you’re doing. You can zoom the entire screen (Full Screen Zoom) or zoom part of the screen in a resizable window and leave the rest of the screen unmagnified (Window Zoom). And, you can use Zoom together with VoiceOver. Appendix A Accessibility 163 Turn Zoom on or off. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Zoom. Or, use the Accessibility Shortcut. See Accessibility Shortcut on page 151. Zoom in or out. With Zoom turned on, double-tap the screen with three fingers. Adjust the magnification. Double-tap with three fingers, then drag up or down. The tap-anddrag gesture is similar to a double-tap, except you don’t lift your fingers on the second tap— instead, drag your fingers on the screen. You can also triple-tap with three fingers, then drag the Zoom Level slider in the controls that appear. To limit the maximum magnification, go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Zoom > Maximum Zoom Level. Pan to see more. Drag the screen with three fingers. Or, hold your finger near the edge of the screen to pan to that side. Move your finger closer to the edge to pan more quickly. Switch between Full Screen Zoom and Window Zoom. Triple-tap with three fingers, then tap Window Zoom or Full Screen Zoom in the zoom controls that appear. To choose the mode that’s used when you turn on Zoom, go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Zoom > Zoom Region. Resize the zoom window (Window Zoom). Triple-tap with three fingers, tap Resize Lens, then drag any of the round handles that appear. Move the zoom window (Window Zoom). Drag the handle at the bottom of the zoom window. Show the zoom controller. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Zoom, then turn on Show Controller, or triple-tap with three fingers, then choose Show Controller. Then you can doubletap the floating Zoom Controls button to zoom in or out, single-tap the button to display the zoom controls, or drag it to pan. To move the Zoom Controls button, tap and hold the button, then drag it to a new location. To adjust the transparency of the zoom controller, go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Zoom > Idle Visibility. Have Zoom track your selections or the text insertion point. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Zoom > Follow Focus. Then, for example, if you use VoiceOver, turning on this option causes the zoom window to magnify each element on the screen as you select it using a swipe in VoiceOver. Zoom in on your typing without magnifying the keyboard. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Zoom, then turn on Follow Focus and turn off Zoom Keyboard. When you zoom in while typing (in Messages or Notes, for example), the text you type is magnified while all of the keyboard remains visible. Display the magnified part of the screen in grayscale or inverted color. Triple-tap with three fingers, then tap Choose Filter in the zoom controls that appear. While using Zoom with an Apple Wireless Keyboard, the screen image follows the insertion point, keeping it in the center of the display. See Use an Apple Wireless Keyboard on page 32. If you have iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus, you can turn on Display Zoom to see larger onscreen controls. Go to Settings > Display & Brightness > View. Invert Colors and Grayscale Sometimes, inverting the colors or changing to grayscale on the iPhone screen makes it easier to read. Invert the screen colors. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Invert Colors. See the screen in grayscale. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Grayscale. Turn on both effects to see inverted grayscale. You can also apply these effects to just the contents of the zoom window—see Zoom on page 162. Appendix A Accessibility 164 Speak Selection Even with VoiceOver turned off, you can have iPhone read aloud any text you select. iPhone analyzes the text to determine the language, then reads it to you using the appropriate pronunciation. Turn on Speak Selection. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Speech. There you can also: • Adjust the speaking rate • Choose to have individual words highlighted as they’re read Have text read to you. Select the text, then tap Speak. You can also have iPhone read the entire screen to you. See Speak Screen, next. Speak Screen iPhone can read the contents of the screen to you, even if you don’t use VoiceOver. Turn on Speak Screen. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Speech. Have iPhone speak the screen. Swipe down from the top of the screen with two fingers. Use the controls that appear to pause speaking or adjust the rate. Highlight what’s being spoken. Turn on Highlight Content, below the Speak Screen switch when it’s turned on. Use Siri. Say “speak screen.” You can also have iPhone read just text you select—see Speak Selection, above. Speak Auto-text Speak Auto-text speaks the text corrections and suggestions iPhone makes when you type. Turn Speak Auto-text on or off. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Speech. Speak Auto-text also works with VoiceOver and Zoom. Large, bold, and high-contrast text Display larger text in apps such as Settings, Calendar, Contacts, Mail, Messages, and Notes. Go to Settings > General > Text Size, then adjust the slider. For even larger text, go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Larger Text, then turn on Larger Accessibility Sizes. Display bolder text on iPhone. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility, then turn on Bold Text. Increase text contrast where possible. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility, then turn on Increase Contrast. Button Shapes iPhone can add a colored background shape or an underline to buttons so they’re easier to see. Emphasize buttons. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility, then turn on Button Shapes. Appendix A Accessibility 165 Reduce screen motion You can stop the movement of some screen elements, for example, the parallax effect of icons and alerts against the wallpaper, or motion transitions. Reduce motion. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility, then turn on Reduce Motion. On/off switch labels To make it easier to see whether a setting is on or off, you can have iPhone show an additional label on on/off switches. Add switch-setting labels. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility, then turn on On/Off Labels. Assignable ringtones and vibrations You can assign distinctive ringtones to people in your contacts list for audible caller ID. You can also assign vibration patterns for notifications from specific apps, for phone calls, for FaceTime calls or messages from special contacts, and to alert you of a variety of other events, including new voicemail, new mail, sent mail, Tweet, Facebook Post, and reminders. Choose from existing patterns, or create new ones. See Sounds and silence on page 36. You can purchase ringtones from the iTunes Store on iPhone. See Chapter 22, iTunes Store, on page 118. Video Descriptions Video descriptions provide an audible description of video scenes. If you have a video that includes video descriptions, iPhone can play them for you. Turn on Video Descriptions. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Video Descriptions. Hearing aids Made for iPhone hearing aids If you have Made for iPhone hearing aids, you can use iPhone to adjust their settings, stream audio, or use iPhone as a remote mic. Pair with iPhone. If your hearing aids aren’t listed in Settings > General > Accessibility > Hearing Aids, you need to pair them with iPhone. To start, open the battery door on each hearing aid. Next, on iPhone, go to Settings > Bluetooth, then make sure Bluetooth is turned on. Then go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Hearing Aids. Close the battery doors on your hearing aids and wait until their name appears in the list of devices (this could take a minute). When the name appears, tap it and respond to the pairing request. When pairing is finished, you hear a series of beeps and a tone, and a checkmark appears next to the hearing aids in the Devices list. Pairing can take as long as 60 seconds—don’t try to stream audio or otherwise use the hearing aids until pairing is finished. You should only need to pair once (and your audiologist might do it for you). After that, each time you turn your hearing aids back on, they reconnect to iPhone. Adjust hearing aid settings and view status. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Hearing Aids, or choose Hearing Aids from the Accessibility Shortcut. See Accessibility Shortcut on page 151. Hearing aid settings appear only after you pair your hearing aids with iPhone. Appendix A Accessibility 166 For shortcut access from the Lock screen, go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Hearing Aids, then turn on Control on Lock Screen. Use the settings to: • Check hearing aid battery status. • Adjust ambient microphone volume and equalization. • Choose which hearing aids (left, right, or both) receive streaming audio. • Control Live Listen. Stream audio to your hearing aids. Stream audio from Phone, Siri, Music, Videos, and more by choosing your hearing aids from the AirPlay menu . Use iPhone as a remote microphone. You can use Live Listen to stream sound from the microphone in iPhone to your hearing aids. This can help you hear better in some situations by positioning iPhone nearer the sound source. Triple-click the Home button, choose Hearing Aids, then tap Start Live Listen. Use your hearing aids with more than one iOS device. If you pair your hearing aids with more than one iOS device (both iPhone and iPad, for example), the connection for your hearing aids automatically switches from one to the other when you do something that generates audio on the other device, or when you receive a phone call on iPhone. Changes you make to hearing aid settings on one device are automatically sent to your other iOS devices. To take advantage of this, all of the devices must be on the same Wi-Fi network and signed in to iCloud using the same Apple ID. Hearing Aid Mode iPhone has a Hearing Aid Mode that, when activated, may reduce interference with some hearing aid models. Hearing Aid Mode reduces the transmission power of the cellular radio in the GSM 1900 MHz band and may result in decreased 2G cellular coverage. Turn on Hearing Aid Mode. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Hearing Aids. Hearing aid compatibility The FCC has adopted hearing aid compatibility (HAC) rules for digital wireless phones. These rules require certain phones to be tested and rated under the American National Standard Institute (ANSI) C63.19-2007 or C63.19-2011 hearing aid compatibility standards. The ANSI standard for hearing aid compatibility contains two types of ratings: • An “M” rating for reduced radio frequency interference to enable acoustic coupling with hearing aids that are not operating in telecoil mode • A “T” rating for inductive coupling with hearing aids operating in telecoil mode These ratings are given on a scale from one to four, where four is the most compatible. A phone is considered hearing aid compatible under FCC rules if it is rated M3 or M4 for acoustic coupling and T3 or T4 for inductive coupling. For iPhone hearing aid compatibility ratings, see www.apple.com/support/hac/. Hearing aid compatibility ratings don’t guarantee that a particular hearing aid works with a particular phone. Some hearing aids may work well with phones that don’t meet particular ratings. To ensure interoperability between a hearing aid and a phone, try using them together before purchase. Appendix A Accessibility 167 This phone has been tested and rated for use with hearing aids for some of the wireless technologies it uses. However, there may be some newer wireless technologies used in this phone that have not been tested yet for use with hearing aids. It is important to try the different features of this phone thoroughly and in different locations, using your hearing aid or cochlear implant, to determine if you hear any interfering noise. Consult your service provider or Apple for information on hearing aid compatibility. If you have questions about return or exchange policies, consult your service provider or phone retailer. Mono audio and balance Mono Audio combines the sound from the left and right channels into a mono signal played on both channels. This way you can hear everything with either ear, or through both ears with one channel set louder. Turn Mono Audio on or off. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Mono Audio. Adjust the balance. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility, then drag the Left Right Stereo Balance slider. Subtitles and closed captions The Videos app includes an Alternate Track button you can tap to choose subtitles and captions offered by the video you’re watching. Standard subtitles and captions are usually listed, but if you prefer special accessible captions, such as subtitles for the deaf and hard of hearing (SDH), you can set iPhone to list them instead, if they’re available. Prefer accessible subtitles and closed captions for the hard of hearing in the list of available subtitles and captions. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Subtitles & Captioning, then turn on Closed Captions + SDH. This also turns on subtitles and captions in the Videos app. Choose from available subtitles and captions. Tap while watching a video in Videos. Customize your subtitles and captions. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Subtitles & Captioning > Style, where you can choose an existing caption style or create a new style based on your choice of: • Font, size, and color • Background color and opacity • Text opacity, edge style, and highlight Not all videos include closed captions. Siri With Siri, you can do things like opening apps just by asking, and VoiceOver can read Siri responses to you. See Chapter 4, Siri, on page 48. Widescreen keyboards Many apps, including Mail, Safari, Messages, Notes, and Contacts, let you rotate iPhone when you’re typing, so you can use a larger keyboard. Appendix A Accessibility 168 Large phone keypad Make phone calls simply by tapping entries in your contacts and favorites lists. When you need to dial a number, the large numeric keypad on iPhone makes it easy. See Make a call on page 51. LED Flash for Alerts If you can’t hear the sounds that announce incoming calls and other alerts, you can have iPhone flash its LED (next to the camera lens on the back of iPhone). This works only when iPhone is locked or asleep. Turn on LED Flash for Alerts. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > LED Flash for Alerts. Call audio routing You can have the audio of incoming or outgoing calls automatically routed through a headset or speaker phone instead of iPhone. Reroute audio for calls. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Call Audio Routing, then choose how you want to hear and speak your calls. You can also have audio from calls routed to your hearing aids; see Hearing aids on page 165. Phone noise cancelation iPhone uses ambient noise cancelation to reduce background noise. Turn noise cancelation on or off. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Phone Noise Cancelation. Guided Access Guided Access helps an iPhone user stay focused on a task. Guided Access dedicates iPhone to a single app, and lets you control which app features are available. Use Guided Access to: • Temporarily restrict iPhone to a particular app • Disable areas of the screen that aren’t relevant to a task, or areas where an accidental gesture might cause a distraction • Limit how long someone can use an app • Disable the iPhone Sleep/Wake or volume buttons Use Guided Access. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Guided Access, where you can: • Turn Guided Access on or off • Tap Passcode Settings to set a passcode that controls the use of Guided Access (preventing someone from leaving a session), and turn on Touch ID (as a way to end Guided Access) • Tap Time Limits to set a sound or have the remaining Guided Access time spoken before time ends • Set whether other accessibility shortcuts are available during a session Start a Guided Access session. After turning on Guided Access, open the app you want to run, then triple-click the Home button. Adjust settings for the session, then tap Start. • Disable app controls and areas of the app screen:  Draw a circle or rectangle around any part of the screen you want to disable. Drag the mask into position or use the handles to adjust its size. Appendix A Accessibility 169 • Enable the Sleep/Wake or volume buttons: Tap Options below Hardware Buttons. • Keep iPhone from switching from portrait to landscape or from responding to other motions: Tap Options, then turn off Motion. • Prevent typing: Tap Options, then turn off Keyboards. • Ignore all screen touches: Turn off Touch at the bottom of the screen. • Set a session time limit: Tap Time Limit Options at the bottom of the screen. End the session. Triple-click the Home button, then enter the Guided Access passcode, or use Touch ID (if enabled). Switch Control Switch Control lets you control iPhone using a single switch or multiple switches. Use any of several methods to perform actions such as selecting, tapping, dragging, typing, and even freehand drawing. The basic technique is to use a switch to select an item or location on the screen, and then use the same (or different) switch to choose an action to perform on that item or location. Three basic methods are: • Item scanning (default), which highlights different items on the screen until you select one. • Point scanning, which lets you use scanning crosshairs to pick a screen location. • Manual selection, which lets you move from item to item on demand (requires multiple switches). Whichever method you use, when you select an individual item (rather than a group), a menu appears so you can choose how to act on the selected item (tap, drag, or pinch, for example). If you use multiple switches, you can set up each switch to perform a specific action and customize your item selection method. For example, instead of automatically scanning screen items, you can set up switches to move to the next or previous item on demand. You can adjust the behavior of Switch Control in a variety of ways, to suit your specific needs and style. Add a switch and turn on Switch Control You can use any of these as a switch: • An external adaptive switch: Choose from a variety of popular USB or Bluetooth switches. • The iPhone screen: Tap the screen to trigger the switch. • The iPhone FaceTime camera: Move your head to trigger the switch. You can use the camera as two switches: one when you move your head to the left, and the other when you move your head to the right. Add a switch and choose its action. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Switch Control > Switches. If you use only one switch, it is your Select Item switch by default. If you’re adding an external switch, you need to connect it to iPhone before it will appear in the list of available switches. Follow the instructions that came with the switch. If it connects using Bluetooth, you need to pair it with iPhone—turn on the switch, go to Settings > Bluetooth, tap the switch, then follow the onscreen instructions. For more information, see Bluetooth devices on page 42. Turn on Switch Control. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Switch Control, or use the Accessibility Shortcut. See Accessibility Shortcut on page 151. Turn off Switch Control. Use any scanning method to select, then tap Settings > General > Accessibility > Switch Control. Or triple-click the Home button. Appendix A Accessibility 170 Basic techniques Whether you use item scanning or point scanning, the Switch Control basics are the same. Select an item. While the item is highlighted, trigger the switch you’ve set up as your Select Item switch. If you are using a single switch, it is your Select Item switch by default. Perform an action on the selected item. Choose a command from the control menu that appears when you select the item. The layout of the menu depends on whether you use Auto Tap. • With Auto Tap off: The control menu includes only the Tap button and the More button (two dots at the bottom). If you’re in a scrollable area of the screen, a Scroll button also appears. To tap the highlighted item, trigger your Select Item button when Tap is highlighted. To see additional action buttons, choose More at the bottom of the menu. If you have multiple switches, you can set one up specifically for tapping. • With Auto Tap on: To tap the item, do nothing—the item is automatically tapped when the Auto Tap interval expires (0.75 seconds if you haven’t changed it). To see the control menu, trigger your Select Item button before the Auto Tap interval expires. The control menu skips the Tap button and goes right to the full set of action buttons. Turn on Auto Tap. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Switch Control > Auto Tap. To tap an item with Auto Tap on, just wait for the Auto Tap interval to expire. Dismiss the control menu without choosing an action. Tap while the original item is highlighted and all the icons in the control menu are dimmed. Or choose Escape from the control menu. The menu goes away after cycling the number of times you specify at Settings > General > Accessibility > Switch Control > Loops. Perform screen gestures. Choose Gestures from the control menu. Scroll the screen. Select an item in a scrollable part of the screen, then: • With Auto Tap off: Choose the Scroll Down button (next to the Tap button) in the control menu. Or, for more scrolling options, choose More, then choose Scroll. • With Auto Tap on: Choose Scroll from the control menu. If many actions are available, you might have to choose More first. Tap the Home button. Choose Home from the control menu. Perform other hardware actions. Select any item, then choose Device from the menu that appears. Use the menu to mimic these actions: • Double-click the Home button for multitasking • Open Notification Center or Control Center • Press the Sleep/Wake button to lock iPhone • Rotate iPhone • Flip the Ring/Silent switch • Press the volume buttons • Hold down the Home button to open Siri • Triple-click the Home button • Shake iPhone • Press the Home and Sleep/Wake buttons simultaneously to take a screenshot • Swipe down from the top with two fingers to speak the screen (if you have Speak Screen turned on) Appendix A Accessibility 171 Item scanning Item scanning alternately highlights each item or group of items on the entire screen until you trigger your Select Item switch. If there are many items, Switch Control highlights them in groups. When you select a group, highlighting continues with the items in the group. When you select a unique item, scanning stops and the control menu appears. Item scanning is the default when you first turn on Switch Control. Select an item or enter a group. Watch (or listen) as items are highlighted. When the item you want to control (or the group containing the item) is highlighted, trigger your Select Item switch. Work your way down in the hierarchy of items until you select the individual item you want to control. Back out of a group. Trigger your Select Item switch when the dashed highlight around the group or item appears. Dismiss the control menu without performing an action. Trigger your Select Item switch when the item itself is highlighted. Or choose Escape from the control menu. Hear the names of items as they are highlighted. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Switch Control, then turn on Speech. Or choose Settings from the control menu, then choose Speech On. Slow down the scanning. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Switch Control > Auto Scanning Time. Point scanning Point scanning lets you select an item on the screen by pinpointing it with scanning crosshairs. Switch to point scanning. Use item scanning to choose Point Mode from the control menu. The vertical crosshair appears when you close the menu. Select an item. Trigger your Select Item switch when the item you want is within the broad, horizontal scanning band, then trigger again when the fine scanning line is on the item. Repeat for vertical scanning. Refine your selection point. Choose Refine Selection from the control menu. Return to item scanning. Choose Item Mode from the control menu. Manual selection You can select a screen item directly using dedicated switches instead of having iPhone alternately highlight every item. Stop scanning and highlight items yourself. Add switches in addition to your Select Item switch to perform the Move To Next Item and Move To Previous Item actions. (You can use the iPhone FaceTime camera with head-left and head-right movements for these switches.) When you’ve added the switches, turn off Settings > General > Accessibility > Switch Control > Auto Scanning. Important:  Don’t turn off Auto Scanning if you use only one switch. You need at least two: one to move to an item and a second to select the item. Settings and adjustments Adjust basic settings. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Switch Control, where you can: • Add switches and specify their function • Turn off auto scanning (only if you’ve added a Move to Next Item switch) • Adjust how rapidly items are scanned Appendix A Accessibility 172 • Set scanning to pause on the first item in a group • Choose how many times to cycle through the screen before hiding Switch Control • Turn Auto Tap on or off and set the interval for performing a second switch action to show the control menu • Set whether a movement action is repeated when you hold down a switch, and how long to wait before repeating • Set whether and how long you need to hold a switch down before it’s accepted as a switch action • Have Switch Control ignore accidental repeated switch triggers • Adjust the point scanning speed • Turn on sound effects or have items read aloud as they are scanned • Choose what to include in the Switch Control menu • Set whether items should be grouped while item scanning • Make the selection cursor larger or a different color • Save custom gestures to the control menu (in Gestures > Saved) Fine-tune Switch Control. Choose Settings from the control menu to: • Adjust scanning speed • Change the location of the control menu • Switch between item scan mode and point scan mode • Choose whether point scan mode displays crosshairs or a grid • Reverse the scanning direction • Turn sound or speech accompaniment on or off • Turn off groups to scan items one at a time AssistiveTouch AssistiveTouch helps you use iPhone if you have difficulty touching the screen or pressing the buttons. You can use AssistiveTouch without any accessory to perform gestures that are difficult for you. You can also use a compatible adaptive accessory (such as a joystick) together with AssistiveTouch to control iPhone. The AssistiveTouch menu lets you perform actions such as these by just tapping (or the equivalent on your accessory): • Press the Home button • Summon Siri • Perform multi-finger gestures • Access Control Center or Notification Center • Adjust iPhone volume • Shake iPhone • Capture a screenshot Turn on AssistiveTouch. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > AssistiveTouch, or use the Accessibility Shortcut. See Accessibility Shortcut on page 151. When AssistiveTouch is on, the floating menu button appears on the screen. Appendix A Accessibility 173 Show or hide the menu. Tap the floating menu button, or click the secondary button on your accessory. Simulate pressing the Home button. Tap the menu button, then tap Home. Lock or rotate the screen, adjust iPhone volume, or simulate shaking iPhone. Tap the menu button, then tap Device. Perform a swipe or drag that uses 2, 3, 4, or 5 fingers. Tap the menu button, tap Device > More > Gestures, then tap the number of digits needed for the gesture. When the corresponding circles appear on the screen, swipe or drag in the direction required by the gesture. When you finish, tap the menu button. Perform a pinch gesture. Tap the menu button, tap Favorites, then tap Pinch. When the pinch circles appear, touch anywhere on the screen to move the pinch circles, then drag the pinch circles in or out to perform a pinch gesture. When you finish, tap the menu button. Create your own gesture. You can add your own favorite gestures to the control menu (for example, tap and hold or two-finger rotation). Tap the menu button, tap Favorites, then tap an empty gesture placeholder. Or go to Settings > General > Accessibility > AssistiveTouch > Create New Gesture. Example 1: To create the rotation gesture, go to Settings > General > Accessibility > AssistiveTouch > Create New Gesture. On the gesture recording screen that prompts you to touch to create a gesture, rotate two fingers on the iPhone screen around a point between them. (You can do this with a single finger or stylus—just create each arc separately, one after the other.) If it doesn’t turn out quite right, tap Cancel, then try again. When it looks right, tap Save, then give the gesture a name—maybe “Rotate 90.” Then, to rotate the view in Maps, for example, open Maps, tap the AssistiveTouch menu button, and choose Rotate 90 from Favorites. When the blue circles representing the starting finger positions appear, drag them to the point around which you want to rotate the map, then release. You might want to create several gestures with different degrees of rotation. Example 2: Let’s create the touch-and-hold gesture that you use to start rearranging icons on your Home screen. This time, on the gesture recording screen, hold down your finger in one spot until the recording progress bar reaches halfway, then lift your finger. Be careful not to move your finger while recording, or the gesture will be recorded as a drag. Tap Save, then name the gesture. To use the gesture, tap the AssistiveTouch menu button, then choose your gesture from Favorites. When the blue circle representing your touch appears, drag it over a Home screen icon and release. If you record a sequence of taps or drags, they’re all played back at the same time. For example, using one finger or a stylus to record four separate, sequential taps at four locations on the screen creates a simultaneous four-finger tap. Exit a menu without performing a gesture. Tap anywhere outside the menu. To return to the previous menu, tap the arrow in the middle of the menu. Move the menu button. Drag it anywhere along the edge of the screen. Adjust your accessory tracking speed. Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > AssistiveTouch > Touch speed. Hide the menu button (with an accessory attached). Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > AssistiveTouch > Always Show Menu. Appendix A Accessibility 174 TTY support You can use the iPhone TTY Adapter cable (sold separately in many areas) to connect iPhone to a TTY machine. Go to www.apple.com/store/ (may not be available in all areas) or check with your local Apple retailer. Connect iPhone to a TTY machine. Go to Settings > Phone, then turn on TTY. Then connect iPhone to your TTY machine using the iPhone TTY Adapter. When TTY on iPhone is turned on, the TTY icon appears in the status bar at the top of the screen. For information about using a particular TTY machine, see the documentation that came with the machine. Note:  Continuity features are not available for TTY support. Visual voicemail The play and pause controls in visual voicemail let you control the playback of messages. Drag the playhead on the scrubber bar to repeat a portion of the message that’s hard to understand. See Visual voicemail on page 55. Voice Control Voice Control lets you make phone calls and control Music playback using voice commands. See Make a call on page 51, and Siri and Voice Control on page 76. Accessibility in OS X Take advantage of the accessibility features in OS X when you use iTunes to sync information and content from your iTunes library to iPhone. In the Finder, choose Help > Help Center (or Help > Mac Help in OS X Yosemite), then search for “accessibility.” For more information about iPhone and OS X accessibility features, go to www.apple.com/accessibility/. B 175 iPhone in business Appendix With support for secure access to corporate networks, directories, custom apps, and Microsoft Exchange, iPhone is ready to go to work. For detailed information about using iPhone in business, go to www.apple.com/iphone/business/. Mail, Contacts, and Calendar To use iPhone with your work accounts, you need to know the settings your organization requires. If you received your iPhone from your organization, the settings and apps you need might already be installed. If it’s your own iPhone, your system administrator may provide you with the settings for you to enter, or have you connect to a mobile device management server that installs the settings and apps you should have. Organizational settings and accounts are typically in configuration profiles. You might be asked to install a configuration profile that was sent to you in an email, or one that is downloaded from a webpage. When you open the file, iPhone asks for your permission to install the profile, and displays information about what it contains. In most cases, when you install a configuration profile that sets up an account for you, some iPhone settings can’t be changed. For example, your organization might turn on Auto-Lock and require you to set a passcode in order to protect the information in the accounts you access. You can see your profiles in Settings > General > Profiles. If you delete a profile, all of the settings and accounts associated with the profile are also removed, including any custom apps your organization provided or had you download. If you need a passcode to delete a profile, contact your system administrator. Network access A VPN (virtual private network) provides secure access over the Internet to private resources, such as your organization’s network. You may need to install a VPN app from the App Store that configures your iPhone to access a particular network. Contact your system administrator for information about apps and settings you need. Apps In addition to the built-in apps and the ones you get from the App Store, your organization may want you to have certain other apps. They might provide you with a pre-paid redemption code for the App Store. When you download an app using a redemption code, you own it, even though your organization purchased it for you. Appendix B iPhone in business 176 Your organization can also purchase App Store app licenses that are assigned to you for a period of time, but that the organization retains. You’ll be invited to participate in your organization’s program in order to access these apps. After you enroll with your Apple ID, you’re prompted to install these apps as they’re assigned to you. You can also find them in your Purchased list in the App Store. An app you receive this way is removed if the organization assigns it to someone else. Your organization might also develop custom apps that aren’t in the App Store. You install them from a webpage or, if your organization uses mobile device management, you receive a notification asking you to install them over the air. These apps belong to your organization, and they may be removed or stop working if you delete a configuration profile or dissociate iPhone from the mobile device management server. C 177 International keyboards Use international keyboards International keyboards let you type text in many different languages, including Asian languages and languages written from right to left. For a list of supported keyboards, go to www.apple.com/iphone/, choose your iPhone, click Tech Specs, then scroll to Languages. Manage keyboards. Go to Settings > General > Keyboard > Keyboards. • Add a keyboard: Tap Add New Keyboard, then choose a keyboard from the list. Repeat to add more keyboards. • Remove a keyboard:  Tap Edit, tap next to the keyboard you want to remove, tap Delete, then tap Done. • Edit your keyboard list:  Tap Edit, drag next to a keyboard to a new place in the list, then tap Done. To enter text in a different language, switch keyboards. Switch keyboards while typing. Touch and hold the Globe key to show all your enabled keyboards. To choose a keyboard, slide your finger to the name of the keyboard, then release. The Globe key appears only if you enable more than one keyboard. You can also just tap . When you tap , the name of the newly activated keyboard appears briefly. Continue tapping to access other enabled keyboards. Many keyboards provide letters, numbers, and symbols that aren’t visible on the keyboard. Enter accented letters or other characters. Touch and hold the related letter, number, or symbol, then slide to choose a variant. For example: • On a Thai keyboard:  Choose native numbers by touching and holding the related Arabic number. • On a Chinese, Japanese, or Arabic keyboard:  Suggested characters or candidates appear at the top of the keyboard. Tap a candidate to enter it, or swipe left to see more candidates. Use the extended suggested candidate list. Tap the up arrow on the right to view the full candidate list. • Scroll the list:  Swipe up or down. • Return to the short list:  Tap the down arrow. When using certain Chinese or Japanese keyboards, you can create a shortcut for word and input pairs. The shortcut is added to your personal dictionary. When you type a shortcut while using a supported keyboard, the paired word or input is substituted for the shortcut. Appendix Appendix C International keyboards 178 Turn shortcuts on or off.  Go to Settings > General > Keyboard > Shortcuts. Shortcuts are available for: • Simplified Chinese:  Pinyin • Traditional Chinese:  Pinyin and Zhuyin • Japanese:  Romaji and 50 Key Reset your personal dictionary. Go to Settings > General > Reset > Reset Keyboard Dictionary. All custom words and shortcuts are deleted, and the keyboard dictionary returns to its default state. Special input methods You can use keyboards to enter some languages in different ways. A few examples are Chinese Cangjie and Wubihua, Japanese Kana, and Facemarks. You can also use your finger or a stylus to write Chinese characters on the screen. Build Chinese characters from the component Cangjie keys. As you type, suggested characters appear. Tap a character to choose it, or continue typing up to five components to see more options. Build Chinese Wubihua (stroke) characters. Use the keypad to build Chinese characters using up to five strokes, in the correct writing sequence: horizontal, vertical, left falling, right falling, and hook. For example, the Chinese character ? (circle) should begin with the vertical stroke ?. • As you type, suggested Chinese characters appear (the most commonly used characters appear first). Tap a character to choose it. • If you’re not sure of the correct stroke, enter an asterisk (*). To see more character options, type another stroke, or scroll through the character list. • Tap the match key (??) to show only characters that match exactly what you typed. Write Chinese characters. Write Chinese characters directly on the screen with your finger when Simplified or Traditional Chinese handwriting input is turned on. As you write character strokes, iPhone recognizes them and shows matching characters in a list, with the closest match at the top. When you choose a character, its likely follow-on characters appear in the list as additional choices. Matching characters Matching characters You can type some complex characters, such as ? (part of the name for the Hong Kong International Airport), by writing two or more component characters in sequence. Tap the character to replace the characters you typed. Roman characters are also recognized. Appendix C International keyboards 179 Type Japanese kana. Use the Kana keypad to select syllables. For more syllable options, drag the list to the left or tap the arrow key. Type Japanese romaji. Use the Romaji keyboard to type syllables. Alternative choices appear along the top of the keyboard; tap one to type it. For more syllable options, tap the arrow key and select another syllable or word from the window. Type facemarks or emoticons. Use the Japanese Kana keyboard and tap the key. Or you can: • Use the Japanese Romaji keyboard (QWERTY-Japanese layout):  Tap , then tap the key. • Use the Chinese (Simplified or Traditional) Pinyin or (Traditional) Zhuyin keyboard:  Tap , then tap the key. D 180 CarPlay About CarPlay CarPlay puts key iPhone apps—the ones you want to use while driving—on your car’s built-in display. With CarPlay, you can get turn-by-turn directions, make phone calls, exchange text messages, listen to music, and more. CarPlay is available on select automobiles and after-market navigation systems, and works with iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone 5s, iPhone 5c, and iPhone 5. Note:  CarPlay is available only in certain areas. Siri must be enabled on your iPhone. Go to Settings > General > Siri. WARNING:  For important information about avoiding distractions that could lead to dangerous situations, see Important safety information on page 183. You operate CarPlay using your car’s built-in controls—a touchscreen, a rotary knob controller, or both. To learn how to operate your display, see the user guide that came with your car. Or just use Siri voice control to tell CarPlay what you want. In fact, Siri often steps in automatically to help you, depending on the app you’re using. Get started Use an Apple approved Lightning to USB Cable to connect iPhone to your car’s USB port. It may be labeled with the CarPlay logo, the words CarPlay, or an image of a smartphone. Depending on your car, the CarPlay Home screen may appear automatically. If not, select the CarPlay logo on your car’s display. Home button Home button Return to a call, or to turn-by-turn directions. Return to a call, or to turn-by-turn directions. View current audio source. View current audio source. Appendix Appendix D CarPlay 181 Speak to Siri. Press and hold the voice control button on the steering wheel, or touch and hold the Home button on the CarPlay Home screen, until Siri beeps. Then make your request. Open an app. Tap the app on the touchscreen. Or twist the rotary knob to select the app, then press down on the knob. Return to the CarPlay Home screen. Tap the Home button on the touchscreen. Or press the “back” button near the rotary knob until you get back to the Home screen. Return to your car’s Home screen. Tap the gray icon with your car’s logo if it appears, or press the physical Home button on your radio if your car has one. View additional apps. If you have more than eight apps, some apps may appear on another page of the Home screen. Swipe left on the touchscreen, or twist the rotary knob. Return to a phone call or to turn-by-turn directions. (Touchscreen only) Tap the icon in the upper-left corner of the touchscreen. Scroll quickly through a list. Slide or tap the letters along the list at the right side of the touchscreen. Or twist or spin the rotary knob. View and control the current audio source. Tap Now Playing to see the current audio app. Maps Get turn-by-turn directions, traffic conditions, and estimated travel time. CarPlay generates likely destinations using addresses from your email, text messages, contacts, and calendars—as well as places you frequent. You can also search for a location, or use locations you bookmarked. You can use other apps even when getting directions. CarPlay lets you know when it’s time to make a turn. Display likely destinations. Tap Destinations. Use Siri. Say, for example, “Get directions to the nearest coffee shop.” Phone CarPlay uses the contacts on your iPhone to help you make calls. Use Show Contacts to bring up your favorites, recent calls, list of contacts, keypad, and voicemail. Use Siri. Say something like: • “Call Emily” • “Return my last call” • “What voicemails have I gotten?” Messages When you open Messages, Siri steps in automatically to read your incoming text messages or let you dictate a new one. Let Siri help you send, hear, and reply to text messages. Use Siri. Say something like: • “Read my text messages” • “Text my wife” • “Tell Emily I’m in traffic and I’ll be 15 minutes late to the meeting” Appendix D CarPlay 182 Music Use Music to access the music on your iPhone—including songs, artists, albums, and playlists. Or tune in to Radio. CarPlay also lets you use other audio apps that you download to your iPhone for podcasts, music, and radio. Use the Now Playing screen to control playback, or use the controls on your car’s steering wheel. Use Siri. Say something like: • “Play some music” • “Let’s hear that Mellow playlist” Podcasts Use the Podcasts app to listen to podcasts on your iPhone. Use Siri. Say something like: • “Play the Serial podcast” • “Skip ahead 45 seconds” Other apps CarPlay works with select third-party audio apps. Compatible apps show up automatically on the CarPlay Home screen. E 183 Safety, handling, and support Important safety information WARNING:  Failure to follow these safety instructions could result in fire, electric shock, injury, or damage to iPhone or other property. Read all the safety information below before using iPhone. Handling  Handle iPhone with care. It is made of metal, glass, and plastic and has sensitive electronic components inside. iPhone can be damaged if dropped, burned, punctured, or crushed, or if it comes in contact with liquid. Don’t use a damaged iPhone, such as one with a cracked screen, as it may cause injury. If you’re concerned about scratching the surface of iPhone, consider using a case or cover. Repairing  Don’t open iPhone and don’t attempt to repair iPhone yourself. Disassembling iPhone may damage it or may cause injury to you. If iPhone is damaged, malfunctions, or comes in contact with liquid, contact Apple or an Apple Authorized Service Provider. You can find more information about getting service at www.apple.com/support/iphone/service/faq/. Battery  Don’t attempt to replace the iPhone battery yourself—you may damage the battery, which could cause overheating and injury. The lithium-ion battery in iPhone should be replaced only by Apple or an authorized service provider, and must be recycled or disposed of separately from household waste. Don’t incinerate the battery. For information about battery service and recycling, see www.apple.com/batteries/service-and-recycling/. Distraction  Using iPhone in some circumstances can distract you and may cause a dangerous situation (for example, avoid using headphones while riding a bicycle and avoid texting while driving a car). Observe rules that prohibit or restrict the use of mobile phones or headphones. Navigation  Maps, directions, Flyover, and location-based apps depend on data services. These data services are subject to change and may not be available in all areas, resulting in maps, directions, Flyover, or location-based information that may be unavailable, inaccurate, or incomplete. Some Maps features require Location Services. Compare the information provided on iPhone to your surroundings and defer to posted signs to resolve any discrepancies. Do not use these services while performing activities that require your full attention. Always comply with posted signs and the laws and regulations in the areas where you are using iPhone and always use common sense. Appendix Appendix E Safety, handling, and support 184 Charging  Charge iPhone with the included USB cable and power adapter, or with other thirdparty “Made for iPhone” cables and power adapters that are compatible with USB 2.0 or later, or power adapters compliant with applicable country regulations and with one or more of the following standards: EN 301489-34, IEC 62684, YD/T 1591-2009, CNS 15285, ITU L.1000, or another applicable mobile phone power adapter interoperability standard. An iPhone Micro USB Adapter (available separately in some areas) or other adapter may be needed to connect iPhone to some compatible power adapters. Only micro USB power adapters in certain regions that comply with applicable mobile device power adapter interoperability standards are compatible. Please contact the power adapter manufacturer to find out if your micro USB power adapter complies with these standards. Using damaged cables or chargers, or charging when moisture is present, can cause fire, electric shock, injury, or damage to iPhone or other property. When you use the Apple USB Power Adapter to charge iPhone, make sure the USB cable is fully inserted into the power adapter before you plug the adapter into a power outlet. Lightning cable and connector  Avoid prolonged skin contact with the connector when the Lightning to USB Cable is plugged into a power source because it may cause discomfort or injury. Sleeping or sitting on the Lightning connector should be avoided. Prolonged heat exposure  iPhone and its power adapter comply with applicable surface temperature standards and limits. However, even within these limits, sustained contact with warm surfaces for long periods of time may cause discomfort or injury. Use common sense to avoid situations where your skin is in contact with a device or its power adapter when it’s operating or plugged into a power source for long periods of time. For example, don’t sleep on a device or power adapter, or place them under a blanket, pillow, or your body, when it’s plugged into a power source. It’s important to keep iPhone and its power adapter in a well-ventilated area when in use or charging. Take special care if you have a physical condition that affects your ability to detect heat against the body. Hearing loss  Listening to sound at high volumes may damage your hearing. Background noise, as well as continued exposure to high volume levels, can make sounds seem quieter than they actually are. Turn on audio playback and check the volume before inserting anything in your ear. For more information about hearing loss, see www.apple.com/sound/. For information about how to set a maximum volume limit on iPhone, see Music settings on page 76. To avoid hearing damage, use only compatible receivers, earbuds, headphones, speakerphones, or earpieces with iPhone. The headsets sold with iPhone 4s or later in China (identifiable by dark insulating rings on the plug) are designed to comply with Chinese standards and are only compatible with iPhone 4s or later, iPad 2 or later, and iPod touch 5th generation. WARNING:  To prevent possible hearing damage, do not listen at high volume levels for long periods. Radio frequency exposure iPhone uses radio signals to connect to wireless networks. For information about radio frequency (RF) energy resulting from radio signals and steps you can take to minimize exposure, go to Settings > General > About > Legal > RF Exposure or visit www.apple.com/legal/rfexposure/. Appendix E Safety, handling, and support 185 Radio frequency interference  Observe signs and notices that prohibit or restrict the use of mobile phones (for example, in healthcare facilities or blasting areas). Although iPhone is designed, tested, and manufactured to comply with regulations governing radio frequency emissions, such emissions from iPhone can negatively affect the operation of other electronic equipment, causing them to malfunction. Turn off iPhone or use Airplane Mode to turn off the iPhone wireless transmitters when use is prohibited, such as while traveling in aircraft, or when asked to do so by authorities. Medical device interference iPhone contains components and radios that emit electromagnetic fields. iPhone also contains magnets and the included headphones also have magnets in the earbuds. These electromagnetic fields and magnets may interfere with pacemakers, defibrillators, or other medical devices. Maintain a safe distance of separation between your medical device and iPhone and the earbuds. Consult your physician and medical device manufacturer for information specific to your medical device. If you suspect iPhone is interfering with your pacemaker, defibrillator, or any other medical device, stop using iPhone. Not a medical device iPhone and the Health app are not designed or intended for use in the diagnosis of disease or other conditions, or in the cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease. Medical conditions  If you have any medical condition that you believe could be affected by iPhone (for example, seizures, blackouts, eyestrain, or headaches), consult with your physician prior to using iPhone. Explosive atmospheres  Charging or using iPhone in any area with a potentially explosive atmosphere, such as areas where the air contains high levels of flammable chemicals, vapors, or particles (such as grain, dust, or metal powders), may be hazardous. Obey all signs and instructions. Repetitive motion  When you perform repetitive activities such as typing or playing games on iPhone, you may experience discomfort in your hands, arms, wrists, shoulders, neck, or other parts of your body. If you experience discomfort, stop using iPhone and consult a physician. High-consequence activities  This device is not intended for use where the failure of the device could lead to death, personal injury, or severe environmental damage. Choking hazard  Some iPhone accessories may present a choking hazard to small children. Keep these accessories away from small children. Important handling information Cleaning  Clean iPhone immediately if it comes in contact with anything that may cause stains— such as dirt, ink, makeup, or lotions. To clean: • Disconnect all cables and turn iPhone off (press and hold the Sleep/Wake button, then slide the onscreen slider). • Use a soft, lint-free cloth. • Avoid getting moisture in openings. • Don’t use cleaning products or compressed air. The front or back cover of iPhone may be made of glass with a fingerprint-resistant oleophobic (oil repellant) coating. This coating wears over time with normal usage. Cleaning products and abrasive materials will further diminish the coating, and may scratch the glass. Appendix E Safety, handling, and support 186 Using connectors, ports, and buttons  Never force a connector into a port or apply excessive pressure to a button, because this may cause damage that is not covered under the warranty. If the connector and port don’t join with reasonable ease, they probably don’t match. Check for obstructions and make sure that the connector matches the port and that you have positioned the connector correctly in relation to the port. Lightning to USB Cable  Discoloration of the Lightning connector after regular use is normal. Dirt, debris, and exposure to moisture may cause discoloration. If your Lightning cable or connector become warm during use or iPhone won’t charge or sync, disconnect it from your computer or power adapter and clean the Lightning connector with a soft, dry, lint-free cloth. Do not use liquids or cleaning products when cleaning the Lightning connector. Certain usage patterns can contribute to the fraying or breaking of cables. The Lightning to USB Cable, like any other metal wire or cable, is subject to becoming weak or brittle if repeatedly bent in the same spot. Aim for gentle curves instead of angles in the cable. Regularly inspect the cable and connector for any kinks, breaks, bends, or other damage. Should you find any such damage, discontinue use of the Lightning to USB Cable. Operating temperature  iPhone is designed to work in ambient temperatures between 32° and 95° F (0° and 35° C) and stored in temperatures between -4° and 113° F (-20° and 45° C). iPhone can be damaged and battery life shortened if stored or operated outside of these temperature ranges. Avoid exposing iPhone to dramatic changes in temperature or humidity. When you’re using iPhone or charging the battery, it is normal for iPhone to get warm. If the interior temperature of iPhone exceeds normal operating temperatures (for example, in a hot car or in direct sunlight for extended periods of time), you may experience the following as it attempts to regulate its temperature: • iPhone stops charging. • The screen dims. • A temperature warning screen appears. • Some apps may close. Important:  You may not be able to use iPhone while the temperature warning screen is displayed. If iPhone can’t regulate its internal temperature, it goes into deep sleep mode until it cools. Move iPhone to a cooler location out of direct sunlight and wait a few minutes before trying to use iPhone again. For more information, see support.apple.com/kb/HT2101. iPhone Support site Comprehensive support information is available online at www.apple.com/support/iphone/. To contact Apple for personalized support (not available in all areas), see www.apple.com/support/contact/. Restart or reset iPhone If something isn’t working right, try restarting iPhone, forcing an app to quit, or resetting iPhone. Restart iPhone. Hold down the Sleep/Wake button until the slider appears. Slide your finger across the slider to turn off iPhone. To turn iPhone back on, hold down the Sleep/Wake button until the Apple logo appears. Appendix E Safety, handling, and support 187 Force an app to quit. From the Home screen, double-click the Home button and swipe upwards on the app screen. If you can’t turn off iPhone or if the problem continues, you may need to reset iPhone. Do this only if you’re unable to restart iPhone. Reset iPhone. Hold down the Sleep/Wake button and the Home button at the same time for at least ten seconds, until the Apple logo appears. You can reset the network settings, keyboard dictionary, home screen layout, and location and privacy settings. You can also erase all of your content and settings. Reset iPhone settings Reset iPhone settings. Go to Settings > General > Reset, then choose an option: • Reset All Settings:  All your preferences and settings are reset. • Erase All Content and Settings:  Your information and settings are removed. iPhone cannot be used until it’s set up again. • Reset Network Settings:  When you reset network settings, previously used networks and VPN settings that weren’t installed by a configuration profile are removed. (To remove VPN settings installed by a configuration profile, go to Settings > General > Profile, select the profile, then tap Remove. This also removes other settings or accounts provided by the profile.) Wi-Fi is turned off and then back on, disconnecting you from any network you’re on. The Wi-Fi and “Ask to Join Networks” settings remain turned on. • Reset Keyboard Dictionary:  You add words to the keyboard dictionary by rejecting words iPhone suggests as you type. Resetting the keyboard dictionary erases all words you’ve added. • Reset Home Screen Layout:  Returns the built-in apps to their original layout on the Home screen. • Reset Location & Privacy:  Resets the location services and privacy settings to their defaults. Get information about your iPhone See information about iPhone. Go to Settings > General > About. The items you can view include: • Name • Network addresses • Number of songs, videos, photos, and apps • Capacity and available storage space • iOS version • Carrier • Model number • Serial number • Wi-Fi and Bluetooth addresses • IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) • ICCID (Integrated Circuit Card Identifier, or Smart Card) for GSM networks • MEID (Mobile Equipment Identifier) for CDMA networks Appendix E Safety, handling, and support 188 • Modem firmware • Legal (including legal notices and license, warranty, regulatory marks, and RF exposure information) To copy the serial number and other identifiers, touch and hold the identifier until Copy appears. To help Apple improve products and services, iPhone sends diagnostic and usage data. This data doesn’t personally identify you, but may include location information. View or turn off diagnostic information. Go to Settings > Privacy > Diagnostics & Usage. Usage information View cellular usage. Go to Settings > Cellular. See Cellular settings on page 190. View other usage information. Go to Settings > General > Usage to: • See Battery Usage, including the elapsed time since iPhone has been charged and usage by app • Display battery level as a percentage • View overall storage availability and storage used per app • View and manage iCloud storage Disabled iPhone If iPhone is disabled because you forgot your passcode or entered an incorrect passcode too many times, you can restore iPhone from an iTunes or iCloud backup and reset the passcode. For more information, see Restore iPhone on page 189. If you get a message in iTunes that your iPhone is locked and you must enter a passcode, see support.apple.com/kb/HT1212. Back up iPhone You can use iCloud or iTunes to automatically back up iPhone. If you choose to back up using iCloud, you can’t also use iTunes to automatically back up to your computer, but you can use iTunes to manually back up to your computer. iCloud backs up to iPhone daily over Wi-Fi, when it’s connected to a power source and is locked. The date and time of the last backup is listed at the bottom of the Backup screen. iCloud backs up your: • Purchased music, movies, TV shows, apps, and books • Photos and videos taken with iPhone (if you use iCloud Photo Library, your photos and videos are already stored in iCloud, so they won’t also be part of an iCloud backup) • iPhone settings • App data • Home screen, folders, and app layout • Messages (iMessage, SMS, and MMS) • Ringtones Note:  Purchased content is not backed up in all areas. Appendix E Safety, handling, and support 189 Turn on iCloud backups. Go to Settings > iCloud, then sign in with your Apple ID and password if required. Go to Backup, then turn on iCloud Backup. To turn on backups in iTunes on your computer, go to File > Devices > Back Up. Back up immediately. Go to Settings > iCloud > Backup, then tap Back Up Now. Encrypt your backup. iCloud backups are encrypted automatically so that your data is protected from unauthorized access both while it’s transmitted to your devices and when it’s stored in iCloud. If you’re using iTunes for your backup, select “Encrypt iPhone backup” in the iTunes Summary pane. Manage your backups. Go to Settings > iCloud. You can manage which apps are backed up to iCloud by tapping them on or off. Go to Settings > iCloud > Storage > Manage Storage to remove existing backups and manage iCloud Drive or Documents & Data. In iTunes, remove backups in iTunes Preferences. View the devices being backed up. Go to Settings > iCloud > Storage > Manage Storage. Stop iCloud backups. Go to Settings > iCloud > Backup, then turn off iCloud Backup. Music not purchased in iTunes isn’t backed up in iCloud. Use iTunes to back up and restore that content. See Sync with iTunes on page 20. Important:  Backups for music, movies, or TV show purchases are not available in all countries. Previous purchases may not be restored if they are no longer in the iTunes Store, App Store, or iBooks Store. Purchased content, iCloud Photo Sharing, and My Photo Stream content don’t count against your 5 GB of free iCloud storage. For more information about backing up iPhone, see support.apple.com/kb/HT5262. Update and restore iPhone software About update and restore You can update iPhone software in Settings, or by using iTunes. You can also erase or restore iPhone, and then use iCloud or iTunes to restore from a backup. Update iPhone You can update software in iPhone Settings or by using iTunes. Update wirelessly on iPhone. Go to Settings > General > Software Update. iPhone checks for available software updates. Update software in iTunes. iTunes checks for available software updates each time you sync iPhone using iTunes. See Sync with iTunes on page 20. For more information about updating iPhone software, see support.apple.com/kb/HT4623. Restore iPhone You can use iCloud or iTunes to restore iPhone from a backup. Restore from an iCloud backup. Reset iPhone to erase all content and settings, then choose Restore from a Backup and sign in to iCloud in Setup Assistant. See Restart or reset iPhone on page 186. Restore from an iTunes backup. Connect iPhone to the computer you normally sync with, select iPhone in the iTunes window, then click Restore in the Summary pane. Appendix E Safety, handling, and support 190 When the iPhone software is restored, you can either set it up as a new iPhone, or restore your music, videos, app data, and other content from a backup. For more information about restoring iPhone software, see support.apple.com/kb/HT1414. Cellular settings Use Cellular settings to turn cellular data and roaming on or off, set which apps and services use cellular data, see call time and cellular data usage, and set other cellular options. If iPhone is connected to the Internet via the cellular data network, the LTE, 4G, 3G, E, or GPRS icon appears in the status bar. LTE, 4G, and 3G service on GSM cellular networks support simultaneous voice and data communications. For all other cellular connections, you can’t use Internet services while you’re talking on the phone unless iPhone also has a Wi-Fi connection to the Internet. Depending on your network connection, you may not be able to receive calls while iPhone transfers data over the cellular network—when downloading a webpage, for example. • GSM networks:  On an EDGE or GPRS connection, incoming calls may go directly to voicemail during data transfers. For incoming calls that you answer, data transfers are paused. • CDMA networks:  On EV-DO connections, data transfers are paused when you answer incoming calls. On 1xRTT connections, incoming calls may go directly to voicemail during data transfers. For incoming calls that you answer, data transfers are paused. Data transfer resumes when you end the call. If Cellular Data is off, all data services use only Wi-Fi—including email, web browsing, push notifications, and other services. If Cellular Data is on, carrier charges may apply. For example, using certain features and services that transfer data, such as Siri and Messages, could result in charges to your data plan. Turn Cellular Data on or off. Go to Settings > Cellular, then tap Cellular Data. The following options may also be available: • Turn Voice Roaming on or off (CDMA):  Turn Voice Roaming off to avoid charges from using other carrier’s networks. When your carrier’s network isn’t available, iPhone won’t have cellular (data or voice) service. • Turn Data Roaming on or off:  Data Roaming permits Internet access over a cellular data network when you’re in an area not covered by your carrier’s network. When you’re traveling, you can turn off Data Roaming to avoid roaming charges. See Phone settings on page 57. • Enable or disable 4G/LTE (varies by carrier):  Using 4G or LTE loads Internet data faster in some cases, but may decrease battery performance. If you’re making a lot of phone calls, you may want to turn 4G/LTE off to extend battery life. This option is not available in all areas. On iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, there are options for turning off 4G/LTE, selecting Voice & Data (VoLTE), or Data Only. • Voice & Data (some carriers):  Choose LTE to load data faster. Choose slower speeds to increase battery life. • Set up Personal Hotspot:  Personal Hotspot shares the Internet connection on iPhone with your computer and other iOS devices. See Personal Hotspot on page 40. Appendix E Safety, handling, and support 191 Set whether cellular data is used for apps and services. Go to Settings > Cellular, then turn cellular data on or off for any app that can use cellular data. If a setting is off, iPhone uses only Wi-Fi for that service. The iTunes setting includes both iTunes Match and automatic downloads from the iTunes Store and the App Store. Sell or give away iPhone Before you sell or give away your iPhone, be sure to erase all content and your personal information. If you’ve enabled Find My iPhone (see Find My iPhone on page 46), Activation Lock is on. You need to turn off Activation Lock before the new owner can activate iPhone under his or her own account. Erase iPhone and remove Activation Lock. Go to Settings > General > Reset > Erase All Content and Settings. See support.apple.com/kb/HT5661. Learn more, service, and support Refer to the following resources to get more iPhone-related safety, software, and service information. To learn about Do this Using iPhone safely See Important safety information on page 183. iPhone service and support, tips, forums, and Apple software downloads Go to www.apple.com/support/iphone/. Service and support from your carrier Contact your carrier or go to your carrier’s website. The latest information about iPhone Go to www.apple.com/iphone/. Managing your Apple ID account Go to appleid.apple.com. Using iCloud Go to help.apple.com/icloud/. Using iTunes Open iTunes, then choose Help > iTunes Help. For an online iTunes tutorial (may not be available in all areas), go to www.apple.com/support/itunes/. Using other Apple iOS apps Go to www.apple.com/support/ios/. Finding your iPhone serial number, IMEI, ICCID, or MEID You can find your iPhone serial number, International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI), ICCD, or Mobile Equipment Identifier (MEID) on the iPhone packaging. Or, on iPhone, choose Settings > General > About. For more information, go to support.apple.com/kb/ht4061. Obtaining warranty service First follow the advice in this guide. Then go to www.apple.com/support/iphone/. Viewing iPhone regulatory information On iPhone, go to Settings > General > About > Legal > Regulatory. Screen repair Go to www.apple.com/support/iphone/repair/. Battery service Go to www.apple.com/batteries/service-and-recycling/. Using iPhone in an enterprise environment Go to www.apple.com/iphone/business/. Appendix E Safety, handling, and support 192 FCC compliance statement This device complies with part 15 of the FCC rules. Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1) This device may not cause harmful interference, and (2) this device must accept any interference received, including interference that may cause undesired operation. Note:  This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class B digital device, pursuant to part 15 of the FCC Rules. These limits are designed to provide reasonable protection against harmful interference in a residential installation. This equipment generates, uses, and can radiate radio frequency energy and, if not installed and used in accordance with the instructions, may cause harmful interference to radio communications. However, there is no guarantee that interference will not occur in a particular installation. If this equipment does cause harmful interference to radio or television reception, which can be determined by turning the equipment off and on, the user is encouraged to try to correct the interference by one or more of the following measures: • Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna. • Increase the separation between the equipment and receiver. • Connect the equipment to an outlet on a circuit different from that to which the receiver is connected. • Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/TV technician for help. Important:  Changes or modifications to this product not authorized by Apple could void the electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) and wireless compliance and negate your authority to operate the product. This product has demonstrated EMC compliance under conditions that included the use of compliant peripheral devices and shielded cables between system components. It is important that you use compliant peripheral devices and shielded cables between system components to reduce the possibility of causing interference to radios, televisions, and other electronic devices. Canadian regulatory statement This device complies with Industry Canada licence-exempt RSS standard(s). Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1) this device may not cause interference, and (2) this device must accept any interference, including interference that may cause undesired operation of the device. Operation in the band 5150-5250 MHz is only for indoor use to reduce the potential for harmful interference to co-channel mobile satellite systems. Users are advised that high-power radars are allocated as primary users (i.e., priority users) of the bands 5250-5350 MHz and 5650-5850 MHz and that these radars could cause interference and/or damage to LE-LAN devices. Le présent appareil est conforme aux CNR d’Industrie Canada applicables aux appareils radio exempts de licence. L’exploitation est autorisée aux deux conditions suivantes: (1) l’appareil ne doit pas produire de brouillage, et (2) l’utilisateur de l’appareil doit accepter tout brouillage radioélectrique subi, même si le brouillage est susceptible d’en compromettre le fonctionnement. La bande 5 150-5 250 MHz est réservés uniquement pour une utilisation à l’intérieur afin de réduire les risques de brouillage préjudiciable aux systèmes de satellites mobiles utilisant les mêmes canaux. Appendix E Safety, handling, and support 193 Les utilisateurs êtes avisés que les utilisateurs de radars de haute puissance sont désignés utilisateurs principaux (c.-à-d., qu’ils ont la priorité) pour les bandes 5 250-5 350 MHz et 5 650-5 850 MHz et que ces radars pourraient causer du brouillage et/ou des dommages aux dispositifs LAN-EL. CAN ICES-3 (B)/NMB-3(B) Disposal and recycling information Apple Recycling Program (available in some areas):  For free recycling of your old mobile phone, a prepaid shipping label, and instructions, see www.apple.com/recycling/. iPhone disposal and recycling:  You must dispose of iPhone properly according to local laws and regulations. Because iPhone contains electronic components and a battery, iPhone must be disposed of separately from household waste. When iPhone reaches its end of life, contact local authorities to learn about disposal and recycling options, or simply drop it off at your local Apple retail store or return it to Apple. The battery will be removed and recycled in an environmentally friendly manner. For more information, see www.apple.com/recycling/. Battery replacement:  The lithium-ion battery in iPhone should be replaced by Apple or an authorized service provider, and must be recycled or disposed of separately from household waste. For more information about battery service and recycling, go to www.apple.com/batteries/service-and-recycling/. Dispose of batteries according to your local environmental laws and guidelines. California Battery Charger Energy Efficiency Türkiye Türkiye Cumhuriyeti: AEEE Yönetmeli??ine Uygundur. Taiwan Battery Statement China Battery Statement Appendix E Safety, handling, and support 194 European Union—Disposal Information  The symbol above means that according to local laws and regulations your product and/or its battery shall be disposed of separately from household waste. When this product reaches its end of life, take it to a collection point designated by local authorities. The separate collection and recycling of your product and/or its battery at the time of disposal will help conserve natural resources and ensure that it is recycled in a manner that protects human health and the environment. Union Européenne—informations sur l’élimination:  Le symbole ci-dessus signifie que, conformément aux lois et réglementations locales, vous devez jeter votre produit et/ ou sa batterie séparément des ordures ménagères. Lorsque ce produit arrive en fin de vie, apportez-le à un point de collecte désigné par les autorités locales. La collecte séparée et le recyclage de votre produit et/ou de sa batterie lors de sa mise au rebut aideront à préserver les ressources naturelles et à s’assurer qu’il est recyclé de manière à protéger la santé humaine et l’environnement. Europäische Union—Informationen zur Entsorgung:  Das oben aufgeführte Symbol weist darauf hin, dass dieses Produkt und/oder die damit verwendete Batterie den geltenden gesetzlichen Vorschriften entsprechend und vom Hausmüll getrennt entsorgt werden muss. Geben Sie dieses Produkt zur Entsorgung bei einer offiziellen Sammelstelle ab. Durch getrenntes Sammeln und Recycling werden die Rohstoffreserven geschont und es ist sichergestellt, dass beim Recycling des Produkts und/oder der Batterie alle Bestimmungen zum Schutz von Gesundheit und Umwelt eingehalten werden. Unione Europea—informazioni per lo smaltimento:  Il simbolo qui sopra significa che, in base alle leggi e alle normative locali, il prodotto e/o la sua batteria dovrebbero essere riciclati separatamente dai rifiuti domestici. Quando il prodotto diventa inutilizzabile, portalo nel punto di raccolta stabilito dalle autorità locali. La raccolta separata e il riciclaggio del prodotto e/o della sua batteria al momento dello smaltimento aiutano a conservare le risorse naturali e assicurano che il riciclaggio avvenga nel rispetto della salute umana e dell’ambiente. Europeiska unionen—information om kassering:  Symbolen ovan betyder att produkten och/eller dess batteri enligt lokala lagar och bestämmelser inte får kastas tillsammans med hushållsavfallet. När produkten har tjänat ut måste den tas till en återvinningsstation som utsetts av lokala myndigheter. Genom att låta den uttjänta produkten och/eller dess batteri tas om hand för återvinning hjälper du till att spara naturresurser och skydda hälsa och miljö. Brasil—Informações sobre descarte e reciclagem O símbolo indica que este produto e/ou sua bateria não devem ser descartadas no lixo doméstico. Quando decidir descartar este produto e/ou sua bateria, faça-o de acordo com as leis e diretrizes ambientais locais. Para informações sobre substâncias de uso restrito, o programa de reciclagem da Apple, pontos de coleta e telefone de informações, visite www.apple.com/br/environment/. Appendix E Safety, handling, and support 195 Información sobre eliminación de residuos y reciclaje El símbolo indica que este producto y/o su batería no debe desecharse con los residuos domésticos. Cuando decida desechar este producto y/o su batería, hágalo de conformidad con las leyes y directrices ambientales locales. Para obtener información sobre el programa de reciclaje de Apple, puntos de recolección para reciclaje, sustancias restringidas y otras iniciativas ambientales, visite www.apple.com/la/environment/. Apple and the environment At Apple, we recognize our responsibility to minimize the environmental impacts of our operations and products. For more information, go to www.apple.com/environment/. KApple Inc. © 2015 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, AirDrop, AirPlay, AirPort, Apple TV, FaceTime, Finder, GarageBand, Guided Access, iBooks, iCloud Keychain, iMessage, iPad, iPhone, iPod, iPod touch, iSight, iTunes, iTunes Pass, iTunes U, Keychain, Keynote, Lightning, Mac, the Made for iPhone logo, Numbers, OS X, Pages, Passbook, the Podcast logo, Safari, Siri, Spotlight, and the Works with iPhone logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. AirPrint, Apple CarPlay, Apple Music, Apple Pay, Apple Watch, EarPods, Flyover, Handoff, Multi-Touch, and Touch ID are trademarks of Apple Inc. Apple Store, Genius, iCloud, iTunes Extras, iTunes Match, iTunes Plus, and iTunes Store are service marks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Apple 1 Infinite Loop Cupertino, CA 95014-2084 408-996-1010 www.apple.com App Store and iBooks Store are service marks of Apple Inc. Beats 1 is a service mark of Beats Electronics, LLC. IOS is a trademark or registered trademark of Cisco in the U.S. and other countries and is used under license. The Bluetooth® word mark and logos are registered trademarks owned by Bluetooth SIG, Inc. and any use of such marks by Apple Inc. is under license. Other company and product names mentioned herein may be trademarks of their respective companies. Every effort has been made to ensure that the information in this manual is accurate. Apple is not responsible for printing or clerical errors. Some apps are not available in all areas. App availability is subject to change. 019-00155/2015-06